
Skip to main content area
Auto Express
User menu

Site top menu

    Newsletter
    Mobile app
    Get 6 issues for £1

Main menu

    Car News
    Car Reviews
    Best Cars
    Car Deals

Find a review

Secondary menu

    Vans
    Accessories & Tyres
    Opinion
    Used cars
    Driver Power
    Tips & Advice

Sections

    How Renault brings motor sport technology to the road (sponsored) - Megane GT twin

    Renault brings motorsport technology to the road (sponsored)

    This week's issue and digital edition of Auto Express
    New car awards 2016 header image

    New Car Awards 2016: the winners
    What are the worst cars ever - header

    What are the worst cars ever? VOTE NOW
    Auto Express newsletter

    Sign up now for your FREE car newsletter
    Renault Kadjar front

    Explore the new Renault KADJAR (sponsored)

    Audi announces increasing involvement in Formula E racing
    Used Lexus CT 200h - front

    Used Lexus CT 200h review

You are here:

    Home Kia Optima Kia Optima Sportswagon GT Line S auto 2016 review 

Search
Kia Optima Sportswagon
Road tests
More on this model

    In-depth reviews
    Kia Optima - front Kia Optima review
    Road tests
    Kia Optima PHEV - front New Kia Optima PHEV plug-in hybrid 2016 review
    Road tests
    Kia Optima Sportswagon - front New Kia Optima Sportswagon estate 2016 review
    Car group tests
    Kia Optima vs Ford Mondeo vs Vauxhall Insignia - header Kia Optima vs Ford Mondeo vs Vauxhall Insignia

Kia Optima Sportswagon GT Line S auto 2016 review

14
Kia Optima Sportswagon GT Line S - front tracking

14
2 Sep, 2016 12:30pm Richard Ingram


              
          facebook

          
          twitter

              
                
                  
                  
                
              
          google+

              
            

Flagship new Kia Optima Sportswagon estate with auto gearbox is a slick package, but expensive
Verdict
3
While the mid-spec Optima 3 makes a strong case for itself, it’s hard to recommend this flagship GT Line S. The lesser models offer plenty of kit, so unless you desperately want all our test car’s bells and whistles, a more modest variant makes greater sense. The same goes for the automatic gearbox, as £2,200 is a lot to ask for an (admittedly slick) self-shifter. Price isn’t everything, but a BMW 318d Sport Touring with the excellent auto box costs only a fraction more.

We’ve already delivered our verdict on Kia’s sleek new Optima Sportswagon – a practical estate version of the Optima saloon – in mid-spec 3 trim. But what if you want a more luxurious model with an automatic gearbox? Well, this posh GT Line S model with the seven-speed DCT could be just the ticket.

Commanding a huge £4,700 premium over the like-for-like 3-spec car, this range-topping GT Line S aims to take the fight to established compact executive cars like the BMW 3 Series and Audi A4. It’s certainly got the looks to match the fleet favourites, but can it compete on kit, costs and handling?

Image 2 of 14
Kia Optima Sportswagon GT Line S - rear tracking

Image 2 of 14

While the Optima SW in 3 guise already has sat-nav, a rear-view camera, automatic headlights and a Harman Kardon stereo, the GT Line S takes this up a notch with a sliding panoramic sunroof, LED lights and a powered tailgate. On top of this you’ll find ventilated front seats and heated rear seats, as well as sportier styling, dual exhausts, wireless phone charging and a load of extra safety kit.

• Best estate cars on the market

The cabin and dash are lifted from the Optima 3, with the same eight-inch screen and soft-touch plastics. The plush seats are upgraded from part to full leather, while gloss trim around the gearlever adds a touch of class. The flat-bottomed steering wheel and alloy pedals feel a bit of a gimmick, though.

Image 9 of 14
Kia Optima Sportswagon GT Line S - interior

Image 9 of 14

The automatic gearbox dents economy (Kia claims 61.4mpg vs 64.2mpg for the manual model), but most drivers will barely notice the shorter range between fill-ups. CO2 emissions increase from 113g/km to 120g/km, so private buyers escape any tax penalty, but Benefit-in-Kind tax jumps one percentage point for company car drivers.

On paper, there’s a more noticeable drop in performance, with the 0-60mph sprint taking 10.7 seconds against 9.8 seconds for the manual model. However, in reality, the smooth-shifting auto box allows you to effectively manage the engine’s torque, with quick changes on kickdown providing decent overtaking power.

It’s not as engaging from behind the wheel as the manual car, though, and the small steering paddles are tricky to operate when you’re driving in a hurry. But while the auto box isn’t well suited to spirited cross-country sprints, it makes light work of motorway journeys and stop-start town traffic. Like the manual, the DCT is smooth and refined at high speed.

Image 6 of 14
Kia Optima Sportswagon GT Line S - side tracking

Image 6 of 14

Otherwise, the Optima auto drives and handles like the manual. You get the same quick but lifeless steering, plus a compliant ride that results in noticeable body roll in corners. It can’t rival the BMW for fun, but it’s more than a match for mainstream rivals like the Ford Mondeo or Vauxhall Insignia.

Practicality is unaffected in the transition from 3 to GT Line S spec, so the spacious cabin and boot remain. There’s more room in the back than in the saloon due to the higher roofline, while the decent 552-litre load bay puts the 3 Series (495 litres) to shame, but trails the equally upmarket VW Passat (650 litres). Fold the rear seats and you liberate a class competitive 1,686 litres of space.
Key specs

    Model: Kia Optima Sportswagon 1.7 CRDi DCT GT Line S
    Price: £30,595
    Engine: 2.0-litre 4cyl diesel
    Power/torque: 139bhp/340Nm
    Transmission: Seven-speed auto, front-wheel drive

    0-60mph: 10.7 seconds
    Top speed: 124mph
    Economy/CO2: 61.4mpg/120g/km
    On sale: 15 September

Rate your car in our Driver Power customer satisfaction survey
Related keywords:

    Car reviews

Kia Optima Sportswagon
  
by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
You might like
Do These Photos Prove The World Is Ending?Warped Speed
End Your Nightly Snoring Nightmare With This Simple S…My Snoring Solution
The 10 Richest Recording ArtistsThe 405
That's How You Find Awesome Hotel Deals!Hotel Bargains
Released: New Cheap Flights Finder From Save70.comSave70
10 Five Minute Healthy Food IdeasVegetarian Plate
How to track your vehicle on the cheap, using your …Gadget Fever
The 20 Best Luxury CarsCarophile
A New MMORPG You Won't Get Bored With. Click Here T…Stormfall: Free Online Game
Latest News

    Audi announces increasing involvement in Formula E racing
    Mercedes E-Class 2016 - autonomous drive A third of Brits already want to buy an autonomous car
    Salon Prive 2016 front Salon Prive 2016: New cars and Concours D'Elegance winners
    Salon Prive 2016 front
    Salon Prive 2016 - Gallery
    Skoda Kodiaq SUV 2016 - black front quarter Hot Skoda Kodiaq to get twin-turbo power and 240bhp
    Porsche Macan Turbo Performance Pack - front quarter Porsche reveals 433bhp Macan Turbo Performance Package
    Ford Focus RS Hennessey pumps 400bhp into the Ford Focus RS
    Porsche Macan Turbo Performance Pack - front quarter
    Porsche Macan Turbo Performance Pack - pictures

See all News
For more breaking car news and reviews, subscribe to Auto Express - available as a weekly magazine and on your iPad. We'll give you 6 issues for £1 and a free gift!
Sponsored Links 
FROM AROUND THE WEB
Do These Photos Prove The World Is Ending?Warped Speed
End Your Nightly Snoring Nightmare With This Simple SolutionMy Snoring Solution
The Ultimate Way to Get Cheap Hotel RoomsHotel Bargains
The 10 Richest Recording ArtistsThe 405
  
by Taboola 
Also consider

    Hyundai i40 - front corneringHyundai i40 Saloon
    4
    Ford Mondeo frontFord Mondeo Hatchback
    4
    Skoda Superb - front actionSkoda Superb Hatchback
    5
    Vauxhall Insignia head onVauxhall Insignia Hatchback
    4

Most read

    1. Best 4x4s and SUVs Features Best 4x4s and SUVs to buy in 2016
    2. Paris Motor Show 2014 News Paris Motor Show 2016: preview
    3. Best car leasing deals - sale Features Best car leasing deals 2016
    4. Skoda Kodiaq - reveal event white show car News New Skoda Kodiaq: prices, specs and video
    5.
    Skoda Kodiaq - reveal event white show car
    News New Skoda Kodiaq SUV - official pictures

Get Auto Express updates

    Follow on Facebook
    Subscribe on YouTube
    Follow on Twitter
    Sign up to our Newsletter

Find new cars
Search now
Find your new car with our new cars search.
Find used cars
Search now
Find your used car with our used cars search.
Home
Contact us

Auto Express Editorial Offices 30 Cleveland Street London, W1T 4JD T: +44 20 7907 6000
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
Subscriptions
Auto Express Subscriptions 800 Guillat Avenue Kent Science Park Sittingbourne Kent, ME9 8GU T: 01795 592 901 Email |Web site Overseas subscriptions: T: +44 1795 592901

    6 issues for £1
    Gift Subscriptions
    Overseas Subs
    Renew a sub

Useful links

    Company Website
    Contact us
    Privacy Notice
    About us
    Feeds
    Authors
    Sitemap

Trending Manufacturers

    Audi
    BMW
    Ford
    Honda
    Hyundai
    Kia
    Land Rover
    Mazda
    Mercedes
    Nissan
    Peugeot
    Renault
    SEAT
    Skoda
    Toyota
    Vauxhall
    Volkswagen
    See all manufacturers

    News
    Articles
    Awards
    Car comparison
    Car group tests
    In-depth reviews
    Long-term tests
    Pictures
    Product group tests
    Product reviews
    Road tests
    Spy shots
    Used car tests
    Videos

Our Websites

    Carbuyer
    Evo
    IT Pro
    Coach
    Alphr
    Know Your Mobile
    Expert Reviews
    Channel Pro
    Digital SLR Photography
    Den of Geek
    The Week
    Magazines
    Women's Fitness
    Cloud Pro
    MagBooks
    Cyclist
    Classic & Performance Car
    TablePouncer

© Copyright Dennis Publishing Limited.
Auto Express is a trademark of Felix Dennis.

    Felix Dennis
    Apps
    Books
    Jobs
    Media Information
    Subscription Enquires
    Your Online Choices

 
		
		
	
	
	
	
	
