
Skip to main content area
Auto Express
User menu

Site top menu

    Newsletter
    Mobile app
    Get 6 issues for £1

Main menu

    Car News
    Car Reviews
    Best Cars
    Car Deals

Find a review

Secondary menu

    Vans
    Accessories & Tyres
    Opinion
    Used cars
    Driver Power
    Tips & Advice

Sections

    How Renault brings motor sport technology to the road (sponsored) - Megane GT twin

    Renault brings motorsport technology to the road (sponsored)

    This week's issue and digital edition of Auto Express
    New car awards 2016 header image

    New Car Awards 2016: the winners
    What are the worst cars ever - header

    What are the worst cars ever? VOTE NOW
    Auto Express newsletter

    Sign up now for your FREE car newsletter
    Renault Kadjar front

    Explore the new Renault KADJAR (sponsored)

    Audi announces increasing involvement in Formula E racing
    Used Lexus CT 200h - front

    Used Lexus CT 200h review

You are here:

    Home MINI Clubman MINI Clubman long-term test review 

Search
MINI Clubman Clubman
Long-term tests
More on this model

    In-depth reviews
    MINI Clubman - front MINI Clubman review
    Road tests
    MINI Clubman ALL4 - front tracking MINI Cooper S Clubman ALL4 2016 review
    News
    MINI Clubman ALL4 Scrambler MINI Clubman ALL4 Scrambler concept rocks up
    Road tests
    MINI Clubman ALL4 2016 - off road front tracking New MINI Clubman ALL4 2016 review

MINI Clubman long-term test review

23
MINI Clubman long-term - third report header

23
1 Sep, 2016 4:45pm Otis Clay


              
          facebook

          
          twitter

              
                
                  
                  
                
              
          google+

              
            

Third report: Our estate is nearly as much fun as the hot JCW hatch
Verdict
4
The Clubman continues to prove that compact hatchback models can be fun as well as family friendly. Like all MINI’s cars it’s great to drive, well built and packed with kerb appeal. And while a JCW is ultimately faster, it can’t match the all-round appeal of our five-door machine.

Mileage: 18,735
MPG: 47.1mpg

On the face of it, the two MINIs in the picture above are like chalk and cheese. On the left is our Cooper D Clubman, which majors on practicality and frugality, while on the right is the firebreathing, fun-seeking John Cooper Works flagship. Yet despite their very different design briefs, both cars leave an equally big smile on my face.

You see, for many drivers – including me – one of the highlights of MINI ownership is the thrilling driving experience. No matter which model you choose, all the firm’s cars have been developed to entertain. As a result, our Clubman is every bit as rewarding from behind the wheel as the 228bhp JCW. 

Yes, the five-door machine rolls a little more in corners, and its diesel engine doesn’t have the rasps and growls of its counterpart, but sharp steering and acrobatic agility are present and correct. And while the 2.0-litre diesel is short on charisma, its muscular 330Nm torque output delivers hot hatch-rivalling pace. 

Image 2 of 23
MINI John Cooper Works 2016

Image 2 of 23

This ability to entertain means that I often seek out interesting routes to photo locations, rather than plodding along the motorway. Not that the Clubman isn’t a comfortable cruiser – in fact, this is one of the many areas where the estate gains an advantage over its high-performance brother. A softer suspension set-up and long sixth gear mean our car is far more relaxing than the firm and frenetic JCW.

Yet it’s the Clubman’s practicality that’s really making its mark. As a photographer, I rarely travel light, so I’d struggle to get half my gear into the JCW’s tiny 211-litre boot. However, the Clubman’s 360-litre load bay accommodates my various camera cases and cleaning kit with a little space to spare. And because there are extra doors, I can just about squeeze four friends into the reasonably roomy interior – you definitely can’t do that in the JCW.

• Mini Cooper D Clubman review

Yet while the Clubman is a super-sized MINI, it still feels surprisingly compact. I’ve recently moved to London, and the car feels as much at home on the capital’s traffic-choked streets as it does on the open road. I’ve even had some appreciative comments from my new neighbours, who have praised the car’s slightly bulbous looks.

t hasn’t been all plain sailing for the Clubman, though. The rear bumper was left scratched and misaligned following a light tap from another car while sat in traffic, and the alloys have attracted a few battle scars – hardly surprising given that the rims and spokes of the optional 18-inch wheels sit proud of the tyre sidewalls. I’ll be looking to get these cosmetic blemishes sorted over the coming weeks.

In the meantime, I’m going to carry on enjoying the Clubman’s ability to put a massive smile on my face.
MINI Clubman: second report

Image 3 of 23
MINI Clubman long-term - second report header

Image 3 of 23

MPG: 47.1mpg
Mileage: 15,801

With the introduction of the five pence carrier bag charge across England, I’ve had to resort to carrying a couple of bags for life in our MINI Clubman to stop me from going bankrupt. I haven’t turned into a shopaholic, and I’m certainly not stockpiling food for some impending apocalypse. No, the reason is that I just can’t seem to find enough excuses to get behind the wheel of our supermini estate.

MINIs have always managed to deliver entertaining handling, and our Cooper D Clubman is no different. The 148bhp 2.0-litre diesel engine has plenty of power, while the sharp chassis means every journey is entertaining. As a result, my kitchen now looks as if I am preparing for some sort of doomsday scenario, and I’m now the first person to raise a hand if anyone is in need of a lift. 

Even better, the estate-style body means that if something happens to need transporting, regardless of size, weight or distance, the Clubman can cope. Just don’t expect fragile items to survive intact, as the car positively encourages you to attack corners on every journey. It doesn’t matter if I’m hitting the open road or dealing with a congested five-minute trip to the shops, the MINI’s fun factor always puts a smile on my face.

• Best family cars

In my first report, I was a bit negative about the Clubman’s looks, and while I still don’t think it’s the most elegantly styled model in the Auto Express car park, the rear three-quarter angle is probably its best feature. The tail-lights look smart and the barn doors are a unique feature that makes it instantly recognisable. 

Where the Clubman does hold visual appeal is from behind the wheel. As standard, it’s pretty ordinary, but the cabin features plenty of high-grade materials, and the metal toggle switches on the centre console are appealing. 

Image 4 of 23
MINI Clubman long-term - second report otis driving

Image 4 of 23

Like most MINIs, our car has benefited from the vast number of personalisation options available. Its blue leather is a subtle touch, while the diamond-quilted stitching gives it an almost Bentley-like upmarket feel. 

The changeable LED mood lighting really helps to create a nice atmosphere, too, especially when driving in low light. The colours range across the spectrum, but I especially like the cool blue and purple shades, as they deliver a calming cabin ambience. Another neat touch is the tartan-style finish to the door bins and cup-holders, which again give the interior an upmarket feel that goes some way to justifying the MINI’s price tag.

So it’s a great place to spend time, which is a bonus, but for me the MINI’s appeal always comes back to how it drives. Our car’s Driving Modes switch flashes up a go-kart when you select Sport mode, and the balanced chassis and low-slung driving position mean the Clubman really does feel like one when you drive it. 

Image 17 of 23
MINI Clubman long-term - infotainment

Image 17 of 23

The six-speed gearbox has a precise shift to make the most of the engine, and only the diesel drone takes away from its powerful responses.The sharp steering delivers plenty of feedback, too, and our only real niggle with the way the Clubman drives is rearward visibility, as those barn doors do restrict your vision out the back.

Now, where did I put those bags for life? I feel another shop coming on...
MINI Clubman: first report

Image 5 of 23
MINI Clubman long-term - header

Image 5 of 23

Mileage: 4,327
Economy: 47.1mpg

It's fair to say that when I first clapped eyes on the new MINI Clubman, it wasn’t a case of love at first sight. I was a  big fan of the practical predecessor, which elegantly incorporated an estate rear on to the cheeky MINI hatch, and included the quirky single door for rear seat passengers. But the latest car looks bloated and bulbous.

However, I’ve always been taught “never judge a book by its cover” – and that’s true of our new Cooper D Clubman. I’ve tried to improve the looks by adding larger 18-inch alloys (£1,145), Pure Burgundy metallic paint (£515) and a grey contrast roof (£125), but it’s inside that the car has won me over. The blend of retro design cues, quality and practicality makes it something to savour.

Admittedly, I’ve gone a little bit overboard with the options, but it’s difficult not to get carried away with MINI’s online car configurator. For starters, I’ve added the garish Chester Indigo Blue leather trim and figure-hugging sports seats, which  in combination cost a hefty £1,715.

Image 8 of 23
MINI Clubman long-term - front tracking

Image 8 of 23

You can’t really order a MINI without investing in one of the option bundles, so I’ve gone for the  £1,385 Chili Pack that includes LED headlamps, keyless entry, heated seats and much more. Finally, I’ve ticked the box for the £1,010 Media Pack that features sat-nav and connected online services.

• How NOT to spec your car

But even without these options,  the Clubman feels right once you’re aboard. The low-slung driving position is perfect, while the bank of toggle switches on the centre console and large circular display on the dashboard are a neat nod to the Fifties original. Modern touches extend to the classy backlit door-pulls that glow in a multi-coloured pattern at night, plus  the intuitive infotainment rotary controller that sits between the front seats.

The quality of the cabin is first-rate, too. Top-notch plastics are used throughout, while the fit and finish are superb. With options, our car costs a whisker over £30,000, but sat behind the wheel, it  feels like it’s worth this heady amount.

Image 10 of 23
MINI Clubman long-term - rear seats

Image 10 of 23

I’ve been impressed by the practicality of this super-sized MINI. Yes, I miss the suicide rear door of the old car, but these conventional openings are much easier  to use. Inside, there’s far more head and legroom, although it still trails the VW Golf.

At the rear, the Clubman’s trademark twin barn doors have been retained. When closed, there’s a thick central pillar that restricts visibility, but opening the doors reveals a useful 360-litre boot. That’s about average for the compact family hatchback class, but it’s more than big enough for all my camera equipment. For even more space, there’s a 40:20:40 split rear bench, too.

Image 14 of 23
MINI Clubman long-term - taillight

Image 14 of 23

However, the best part of MINI ownership is the driving experience. I’ve only covered a handful of miles in the Clubman, but already I’m smitten with its infectious character. Scaling up the external dimensions hasn’t dulled the Clubman’s appetite for fun, as it dives through corners with a puppy-like enthusiasm, and the 2.0-litre diesel delivers a decent punch.

Yet these sharp dynamics don’t come at the expense of refinement, as the MINI is quiet and composed at a cruise. So, initial impressions of the Clubman are very good indeed. I might even come to like the looks...

Insurance quote (below) provided by AA (0800 107 0680) for a 42-year-old living in Banbury, Oxon, with three points.
Key specs

    On fleet since: February 2016
    Price new: £22,245
    Engine: 2.0-litre 4cyl turbodiesel, 148bhp
    CO2/tax: 109g/km/£20

    Options: Metallic paint (£515) contrasting roof (£125) 18-inch alloys (£1,145) sports leather seats (£1,175) Chili Pack (£1,385) MINI Media Pack (£1,010) front and rear parking sensors (£335) active cruise control (£810) through loading system (£200)
    Insurance: Group: 18 Quote: £565
    Mileage/mpg: 18,735/47.1mpg
    Any problems?: None so far

Rate your car in our Driver Power customer satisfaction survey
Related keywords:

    Car reviews

MINI Clubman Clubman
  
by Taboola 
Sponsored Links 
You might like
Do These Photos Prove The World Is Ending?Warped Speed
End Your Nightly Snoring Nightmare With This Simple S…My Snoring Solution
The 10 Richest Recording ArtistsThe 405
That's How You Find Awesome Hotel Deals!Hotel Bargains
24 Celebs Who Are Secretly GeniusesZestVIP
Wow! These Pokemon Go SpotsBestPokemonGoSpots.com
Top 13 Cheapest Travel Destinations in the WorldTourist Spots
Now You Can Track Your Car Using Your SmartphoneTrackr Bravo
35 Huge Dogs That Will Make Your Jaw DropPressRoomVIP
Latest Pictures

    Jaguar F-Type SVR vs Porsche 911 Turbo - header
    Jaguar F-Type SVR vs Porsche 911 Turbo - pictures
    Euro NCAP Subaru Levorg
    Euro NCAP test results August 2016 - pictures
    MG GS vs rivals - header
    MG GS vs Renault Kadjar vs Nissan Qashqai - pictures
    JLR rebranding - Oxford dealer
    JLR's £1billion makeover
    Lotus Elise 250 Special front side
    Lotus Elise 250 Special - Pictures
    VW Transporter Sportline front side
    VW Transporter Sportline - Pictures
    Roborace Devbot - front three quarter
    Roborace Devbot - pictures
    Ken Okuyama kode57 - front three quarter
    Ken Okuyama kode57 - pictures

See all Pictures
For more breaking car news and reviews, subscribe to Auto Express - available as a weekly magazine and on your iPad. We'll give you 6 issues for £1 and a free gift!
Sponsored Links 
FROM AROUND THE WEB
30 Photos That Prove the World Is EndingWarped Speed
End Your Nightly Snoring Nightmare With This Simple SolutionMy Snoring Solution
The Ultimate Way to Get Cheap Hotel RoomsHotel Bargains
The 10 Richest Recording ArtistsThe 405
  
by Taboola 
Also consider

    Skoda Fabia Estate 2015 frontSkoda Fabia Estate
    4
    Volkswagen Golf hatchback 2013 front actionVolkswagen Golf Hatchback
    4
    Ford FocusFord Focus Hatchback
    5
    BMW 1-SeriesBMW 1 Series Hatchback
    4

Most read

    1. Best 4x4s and SUVs Features Best 4x4s and SUVs to buy in 2016
    2. Paris Motor Show 2014 News Paris Motor Show 2016: preview
    3. Best car leasing deals - sale Features Best car leasing deals 2016
    4. Skoda Kodiaq - reveal event white show car News New Skoda Kodiaq: prices, specs and video
    5.
    Skoda Kodiaq - reveal event white show car
    News New Skoda Kodiaq SUV - official pictures

Get Auto Express updates

    Follow on Facebook
    Subscribe on YouTube
    Follow on Twitter
    Sign up to our Newsletter

Find new cars
Search now
Find your new car with our new cars search.
Find used cars
Search now
Find your used car with our used cars search.
Home
Contact us

Auto Express Editorial Offices 30 Cleveland Street London, W1T 4JD T: +44 20 7907 6000
Connect with us
Facebook
Twitter
Subscriptions
Auto Express Subscriptions 800 Guillat Avenue Kent Science Park Sittingbourne Kent, ME9 8GU T: 01795 592 901 Email |Web site Overseas subscriptions: T: +44 1795 592901

    6 issues for £1
    Gift Subscriptions
    Overseas Subs
    Renew a sub

Useful links

    Company Website
    Contact us
    Privacy Notice
    About us
    Feeds
    Authors
    Sitemap

Trending Manufacturers

    Audi
    BMW
    Ford
    Honda
    Hyundai
    Kia
    Land Rover
    Mazda
    Mercedes
    Nissan
    Peugeot
    Renault
    SEAT
    Skoda
    Toyota
    Vauxhall
    Volkswagen
    See all manufacturers

    News
    Articles
    Awards
    Car comparison
    Car group tests
    In-depth reviews
    Long-term tests
    Pictures
    Product group tests
    Product reviews
    Road tests
    Spy shots
    Used car tests
    Videos

Our Websites

    Carbuyer
    Evo
    IT Pro
    Coach
    Alphr
    Know Your Mobile
    Expert Reviews
    Channel Pro
    Digital SLR Photography
    Den of Geek
    The Week
    Magazines
    Women's Fitness
    Cloud Pro
    MagBooks
    Cyclist
    Classic & Performance Car
    TablePouncer

© Copyright Dennis Publishing Limited.
Auto Express is a trademark of Felix Dennis.

    Felix Dennis
    Apps
    Books
    Jobs
    Media Information
    Subscription Enquires
    Your Online Choices

 
		
		
	
	
	
	
	

