
Autoweek
My Account »
Subscribe Today »
Main menu

    News
    Buyers Guide
    Reviews
    Racing
    Photos
    Videos
    Store
    Advisors

Hennessey dials the Focus RS up to 405 hp

September 2, 2016
2016 Ford Focus RS

The stock Focus RS already pumps out an eye-watering 350 hp and 350 lb-ft of torque.
Share

    Facebook
    Tweet
    Pinterest
    Email

HPE400 is for those for whom 350 hp is not enough

Ford Focus RS owners already have 350 hp at their disposal -- a number that would have been thought of as insane for a hatch just a generation ago -- but Hennessey Performance views the stock RS merely as a starting point. The tuner plans to offer an upgrade package for the eyewateringly quick hatch that will crank the horsepower up to 405.

Specifically, Hennessey's HPE400 package will take the 2.3-liter EcoBoost engine from 350 hp and 350 lb-ft of torque up to 405 hp and 425 lb-ft of torque. The tuner plans to achieve this by installing a new stainless-steel exhaust system, tweaking the engine management software and adding a high-flow air filter. The performance pack isn't quite ready yet, but Hennessey plans to sell the parts needed as a kit for $2,995 and will install the parts and run the car on a dyno for $4,995.

2016 Ford Focus RS 5-door hatchback review
Car Reviews
2016 Ford Focus RS 5-door review: Ford’s best car ever?

Wow, the Focus RS. It’s the best modern Ford product I’ve driven. It’s the best sport compact I’ve ever driven, not including small sports cars. It’s quite an ...

We'll have to wait a little to find out the exact performance figures of this upgrade, though the HPE400 version should improve the Focus RS' sprint time of 4.5 seconds to 60 mph for those who feel they need that sort of improvement.

The HPE400 upgrade will be available in just under a month, according to Hennessey, so now might not be a bad time to purchase a roll cage and some other rally equipment. (Right about now, Volkswagen is regretting not putting the Golf GTI W12 into limited production.)

    Ford Focus RS
    MSRP
    $35,900

    Base
    MPG
    N/A

    City / HWY

Jay Ramey

Jay Ramey - Jay Ramey is an Associate Editor with Autoweek, and has been with the magazine since 2013. Jay also likes to kayak and bike. Read more »
See more by this author»
READ THIS NEXT
VW diesel owners opting to sell their cars back	
VW Diesel Scandal
Most VW diesel owners opting to sell their TDI cars back
Honda Civic hatchback coming soon	
Car News
2017 Honda Civic hatch is coming, and it’s packing a punch
1939 Plymouth Radial Air - Jay Leno's Garage	
Classic Cars
We need this Jacobs-powered Plymouth in our garage
2017 Porsche Macan Turbo with Performance Package preview	
Car News
2017 Porsche Macan Turbo with Performance pack drops sprint time to 4.2 seconds
See More
Car News
Related Stories

    Car News 2017 Shelby Mustang GTE is one pricey pony
    Car News 2017 Nissan GT-R Nismo to make U.S. debut at Japanese Classic Car Show in Long Beach
    Car News Koenigsegg CCX demolished in Mexico
    Car News Buy a Fiat 124 Spider Abarth and get a free day at Bondurant driving school
    Car News 500th LaFerrari will go to auction for Italian earthquake aid

Story Topics

Car News, Authors, Jay Ramey, Other News, Hatchback, Ford, Ford Focus
Hey guest, welcome to Autoweek! Sign up and become a member.
GET MORE AUTOWEEK
Subscribe
Magazine

Car news, reviews, motorsports, auto shows and stunning photography delivered right to your mailbox.
Subscribe
Digital Subscription

Take Autoweek to go on your digital device and get the car news you want, wherever you are.
Subscribe
Free Newsletters

Get the best of autoweek.com – including breaking news, racing updates and daily features.

    My AccountMedia KitContent LicensingRSS Feed
    Privacy Policy and Terms of UseAd ChoicesContact UsSend Us Your Tips

Autoweek Logo

All Content © 2016 Crain Communications, Inc.
Autoweek Newsfeed

Read more: http://autoweek.com/article/car-news/hennessey-dials-focus-rs-405-hp#ixzz4JJHFgJgr

