
Autoweek
My Account »
Subscribe Today »
Main menu

    News
    Buyers Guide
    Reviews
    Racing
    Photos
    Videos
    Store
    Advisors

Koenigsegg CCX demolished in Mexico

September 2, 2016
Koenigsegg crashes in Nuevo Laredo

The CCX has a 4.7-liter supercharged V8, good for 806 hp and 693 lb-ft of torque. Photo by El Manana
Share

    Facebook
    Tweet
    Pinterest
    Email

Another limited edition, now beyond repair

A Koenigsegg CCX was destroyed this week in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico. It's right across the border from Laredo, Texas, in case you were wondering. From what we can glean from the story (en Espanol), two men were driving at a high rate of speed, crashed and somersaulted near kilometer marker 12. The car looks like it was blown up by a cruise missile, and it looks like every airbag available deployed. The driver and passenger were sent to the hospital, but their condition is unknown. Vanguardia says that the accident is still being investigated. The news outfit also has more pictures, so click over there and check out the carnage. The CCX was about $700,000 when new.

Jake Lingeman

Jake Lingeman - Jake Lingeman is Road Test Editor at Autoweek, reviewing cars, reporting on car news, car tech and the world at large. Read more »
See more by this author»
READ THIS NEXT
Ferrari donates 500th LaFerrari to help aid Italian earthquake victims	
Car News
500th LaFerrari will go to auction for Italian earthquake aid
BMW I8 Spyder spied testing at the nurburgring	
Car News
BMW i8 Spyder spied running around the Nurburgring
Lamborghini aims at a female audience	
Luxury
Lamborghini courts the ladies
Porsche 918, Viper ACR and McLaren P1 go racing at The Thermal Club	
Supercars
Porsche 918, Viper ACR and McLaren P1 battle at The Thermal Club
See More
Car News
Related Stories

    Car News 2017 Shelby Mustang GTE is one pricey pony
    Car News 2017 Nissan GT-R Nismo to make U.S. debut at Japanese Classic Car Show in Long Beach
    Car News Hennessey dials the Focus RS up to 405 hp
    Car News Buy a Fiat 124 Spider Abarth and get a free day at Bondurant driving school
    Car News 500th LaFerrari will go to auction for Italian earthquake aid

Story Topics

Car News, Photo, Authors, Jake Lingeman, Luxury, Other News, Supercars, Coupe
Hey guest, welcome to Autoweek! Sign up and become a member.
GET MORE AUTOWEEK
Subscribe
Magazine

Car news, reviews, motorsports, auto shows and stunning photography delivered right to your mailbox.
Subscribe
Digital Subscription

Take Autoweek to go on your digital device and get the car news you want, wherever you are.
Subscribe
Free Newsletters

Get the best of autoweek.com – including breaking news, racing updates and daily features.

    My AccountMedia KitContent LicensingRSS Feed
    Privacy Policy and Terms of UseAd ChoicesContact UsSend Us Your Tips

Autoweek Logo

All Content © 2016 Crain Communications, Inc.
Autoweek Newsfeed

Read more: http://autoweek.com/article/car-news/koenigsegg-ccx-demolished-mexico#ixzz4JJHJMGp2

