
Autoweek
My Account »
Subscribe Today »
Main menu

    News
    Buyers Guide
    Reviews
    Racing
    Photos
    Videos
    Store
    Advisors

2017 Ford Fusion Sport first drive: A fitting name

September 2, 2016
2017 Ford Fusion Sport Photo 1
2017 Ford Fusion Sport Photo 2
2017 Ford Fusion Sport Photo 3
1 of 32The 2017 Ford Fusion Sport is equipped with a 2.7-liter twin-turbocharged V6 making 325 hp and 380 lb-ft with a six-speed automatic.
Photo by Ford/Jake Lingeman
Share

    Facebook
    Tweet
    Pinterest
    Email

Finally, a manufacturer says 'sport,' and brings it

Manufacturers love to throw around the word “sport.” They attach it to trim names, package names and special-edition names, but it usually doesn’t mean much. Ford—a company on a roll right now as far as building sporty cars: GT, GT350, RS—just added the word to its midsize Fusion sedan, and God bless ’em, it’s actually sporty. Stick with us here, but when you add 85 hp and 110 lb-ft of torque, albeit with a bigger, turbocharged engine, it’s going to make the car sportier.

The only available powertrain in the 2017 Fusion Sport is a 2.7-liter twin-turbo V6 making 325 hp and 380 lb-ft of torque matched with a new six-speed automatic and all-wheel drive. You may be familiar with that EcoBoost, it’s been known to pull around an F-150 or two. The Fusion Sport comes in at a porky 3,982 pounds, that’s 377 pounds heavier than the Honda Accord, its main rival along with the Toyota Camry. Both of those sedans also offer overpowered V6s, making this a sweet time to get into midsize sedan ownership.

Some of the extra heft comes from the new-for-2017 tech including pre-collision warning, pedestrian detection, park assist ($995), auto emergency braking, adaptive cruise control with stop and go ($1,195), Sync 3 and Android Auto/Apple Carplay. That’s in addition to the returning stuff like lane-departure and blind-spot warnings, lane keeping and the rear-view camera. Ford says that a company’s midsize sedan “is the number one influencer of brand opinion.” This is obviously false, as Autoweek is the number one influencer of brand opinion.

The Sport gets bigger wheels than the rest of the lineup, 19s as opposed to 17s, a dark grille, a sharper front clip and twin dual exhaust. Dark rims with Goodyear Eagle F1 tires are standard, summer Continentals are optional, as is a sunroof. It certainly looks the sport part and it has the numbers to back it up. Could we possibly have an American version of an German autobahn burner?

2017 Honda Accord Coupe V6 new car review
Car Reviews
2017 Honda Accord Coupe V6 review: Sports coupe or just coupe?

I like the Accord Coupe V6 a lot with a manual transmission -- it's sort of a bargain front-drive Audi S5 in that configuration. Go with the automatic, though, and this car loses its way in a ...

Not quite. The Fusion Sport is fast, and feels lighter than its 2-ton mass, but it’s no S4 replacement. It is, however, a genuinely fun-to-drive midsize sedan. In this segment, that’s a statement. The V6 is quiet on startup, but when prodded it growls. Only some of that is “enhanced” (played over the stereo). We put the pedal to the floor and the jelly bean-shaped Ford squirts off the starting line like the Roadrunner, sans a cloud of smoke, thanks to the all-wheel drive.

It’s fast, with no qualifiers. And the new six-speed, more robust to handle the extra power, just cranks through the gears without a hiccup. Ford doesn’t release 0-60 times for its more pedestrian cars but we were pointed to a YouTube video of a guy clocking 5.6 seconds on his no-prep first try. That was Corvette territory not too long ago. After stomping the lightweight gas pedal, thrust builds to about 3,000 rpm and then stays smooth to the redline. The Sport comes standard with paddle shifters on the wheel, though the six-speed will shift automatically at the top of the range and won’t really downshift until the revs drop down significantly.

The Sport’s sport mode is new for 2017. It changes seven characteristics, including the “powertrain” sound, steering feel, throttle response, transmission shift points, the tuning of the continuously controlled damping -- we’ll get to that in a second -- it adds a sport icon in the cluster and doesn’t allow the trans to go back to automatic mode after it’s put in manual.

Toyota Camry gets a few new bonuses
Car News
What changes are coming to the 2017 Toyota Camry?

The ever consistent and pedestrian Toyota Camry is getting more standard equipment, but keeping the same price for the 2017 model year.XLE and XSE trims now receive Toyota’s Entune multimedia ...

Overall, the sport button livens everything up a notch. All of the responses from the controls are faster and the whole package makes the Fusion feel like something sportier than a standard grocery getter. But it isn’t night and day, so don’t expect that. The steering is a bit quicker, the throttle response and shift points are a bit more high strung and the damping is a little firmer. We switched to that mode early in our drive and find all of those changes perfectly suited to everyday driving.

About those continuously controlled dampers, they’re from Tokico and use the Fusion’s onboard computers to analyze signals collected from 12 sensors. But it’s not just for spirited driving. When the system “sees” a pothole, it adjusts the shocks to their stiffest setting, so the wheel doesn’t drop all the way in. When it doesn’t fall in, the back edge of pothole is hit less harshly easing the audible and physical pain. The front wheels then tell the back wheels what’s coming, and they can pre-adjust for the impending strike. Even at their stiff setting, the shocks on the Fusion never provide an overly hard ride. They do decrease body roll in more aggressive corners, but we’d only rank the Fusion Sport as a 6 on the stiffness scale, not nearly up to an enthusiast’s needs. Steering is quick and easy, but without a lot of feel.

The Sport comes standard with leather seats and suede inserts, they’re soft and comfortable, and there’s enough suede in the bottom to make them hold well in corners. The throttle and brake pedals are dressed in aluminum and a big dead pedal sticks out like brick in the footwell. Push-button start and leather wheel are both standard. Ford somehow resisted the urge to go suede or square-shaped. The styling is subdued inside, especially for a sport model, with mostly black rubberized plastic and a few shiny parts. There’s a touch of faux carbon fiber that runs from door to door. Visibility and back-seat space are both good. The A-pillar was thinned for 2017, making it easier to see around corners.

2017 Ford Fusion Sport i1

Overall, the sport button livens everything up a notch. All of the responses from the controls are faster and the whole package makes the Fusion feel like something sportier than a standard grocery getter.

The fastest Fusion doesn’t come cheap. It starts at $34,350 and the ones we tested were in the 40K range. The V6 Camry starts at about $32,000 and the Honda Accord is about the same. We suppose if you optioned out either of those, you’d get to 40K, too. So the price is fair, if seemingly expensive, for a Fusion.

If you want something that’s fun to drive with space for the kids, this is it. The all-wheel-drive system and the V6 do push combined mileage down to 20 mpg, so don’t expect too much cred from your eco-conscious friends. It won’t fill the enthusiast space in your heart either, even though it is undeniably “sporty.” We’d actually say it’s more sport touring or maybe ST, but the Focus already has that trim name locked down, so here we are with Sport. And finally, it is.

    Ford Fusion
    MSRP
    $22,610

    S
    MPG
    21 / 32

    City / HWY

Jake Lingeman

Jake Lingeman - Jake Lingeman is Road Test Editor at Autoweek, reviewing cars, reporting on car news, car tech and the world at large. Read more »
See more by this author»
READ THIS NEXT
2016 Chevrolet Malibu LT review and MSRP with lease deals and monthly payment	
Car Reviews
2016 Chevrolet Malibu LT review: New sheetmetal, interior space change the game
2017 Ford Fusion Sport	
Car News
2017 Ford Fusion Sport takes aim at the Germans
2016 Chevrolet Cruze LT review	
Car Reviews
2016 Chevrolet Cruze LT review: Well-equipped and plain as day
2015 Toyota Camry XSE review notes	
Car Reviews
2015 Toyota Camry XSE review notes

On Sale: Now

Base Price: $34,350

As Tested Price: $41,350

Drivetrain: 2.7-liter twin-turbochaged V6; AWD, six-speed automatic

Output: 325 hp @ 5,500 rpm; 380 lb-ft @ 3,500 rpm

Curb Weight: 3,982

Fuel Economy: 17/26/20 mpg(EPA City/Hwy/Combined)

Options: Rapid Spec Group 401A; ruby red metallic paint; park assist; adaptive cruise with stop and go; navigation; driver assist pacakge

Pros: By definition, it's sporty

Cons: Not aggressive enough for the true enthusiast
See More
Car Reviews
Related Stories

    Car News 2017 Shelby Mustang GTE is one pricey pony
    Car News 2017 Nissan GT-R Nismo to make U.S. debut at Japanese Classic Car Show in Long Beach
    Car News Hennessey dials the Focus RS up to 405 hp
    Car News Koenigsegg CCX demolished in Mexico
    Car Reviews Autoweek in review: Everything you missed Aug. 29-Sept. 2

Story Topics

Car Reviews, Car News, Photo, Authors, Jake Lingeman, Family, Other News, Drive Reviews, Sedan, Ford, Fusion
Hey guest, welcome to Autoweek! Sign up and become a member.
GET MORE AUTOWEEK
Subscribe
Magazine

Car news, reviews, motorsports, auto shows and stunning photography delivered right to your mailbox.
Subscribe
Digital Subscription

Take Autoweek to go on your digital device and get the car news you want, wherever you are.
Subscribe
Free Newsletters

Get the best of autoweek.com – including breaking news, racing updates and daily features.

    My AccountMedia KitContent LicensingRSS Feed
    Privacy Policy and Terms of UseAd ChoicesContact UsSend Us Your Tips

Autoweek Logo

All Content © 2016 Crain Communications, Inc.
Autoweek Newsfeed

Read more: http://autoweek.com/article/car-reviews/2017-ford-fusion-sport-first-drive-fitting-name#ixzz4JJHLwgFs

