Powered by Tynt
[share on Facebook] [tweet this] [share on LinkedIn] [share on Google+]
Don't show again
Autoweek
My Account »
Subscribe Today »
Main menu

    News
    Buyers Guide
    Reviews
    Racing
    Photos
    Videos
    Store
    Advisors

500th LaFerrari will go to auction for Italian earthquake aid

September 1, 2016
Ferrari donates 500th LaFerrari to help aid Italian earthquake victims

The final La Ferrari will be number 500, and will be auctioned off to drum up aid money to assist victims of the recent Italian earthquake.
Share

    Facebook
    Tweet
    Pinterest
    Email

Ferrari will build one final LaFerrari coupe to help victims of recent earthquake

Ferrari chairman Sergio Marchionne said that Ferrari will build one more LaFerrari to be auctioned off. The proceeds of the 500th and final LaFerrari will go to helping victims of the Aug. 24, 2016, earthquake in central Italy. The 6.2-magnitude quake has already taken more than 200 lives and did so much property damage that Italian building standards are being questioned.

While it isn’t clear yet when or where the special Ferrari will be auctioned, it is likely going to bring a high price because of the circumstances surrounding the build. Ferrari only planned on building 499 coupes, with a few more LaFerrari Spiders to round out production. This will be number 500 and sold for charity, which means it'll probably go for a lot higher than the LaFerrari's MSRP of about $1.4 million.

We can imagine the whole world of supercar collectors checking in on this sale, with hopes of nabbing one of the fastest road-going Ferraris ever produced. That’s good considering it’s all going to an important cause, relief in its home country.

Wesley Wren

Wesley Wren - Wesley is an Associate Editor at Autoweek. He loves cutting up old cars, listening to weird music, and going fast. Read more »
See more by this author»
READ THIS NEXT
Rally car rolls in ADAC Rallye Deutschland	
Racing
Watch a WRC car help itself out after this dramatic roll
2017 Honda Accord Coupe V6 new car review	
Car Reviews
2017 Honda Accord Coupe V6 review: Sports coupe or just coupe?
1967 Ferrari 275 GTB4 at Jay Leno's Garage	
Car Life
Watch Jay Leno race around in a 1967 Ferrari 275 GTB4
Mercedes-AMG GLC43	
Car News
Mercedes-AMG GLC43 continues Benz’s crossover onslaught
See More
Car News
Related Stories

    Auctions Rare BMW 502 V8 sedan emerges from slumber and heads to auction
    Car News 2017 Shelby Mustang GTE is one pricey pony
    Car News 2017 Nissan GT-R Nismo to make U.S. debut at Japanese Classic Car Show in Long Beach
    Car News Hennessey dials the Focus RS up to 405 hp
    Car News Koenigsegg CCX demolished in Mexico

Story Topics

Car News, Car Life, Classic Cars, Authors, Wesley Wren, Products, Other News, Supercars, Technology, Coupe, Auctions, Ferrari, LaFerrari
Hey guest, welcome to Autoweek! Sign up and become a member.
GET MORE AUTOWEEK
Subscribe
Magazine

Car news, reviews, motorsports, auto shows and stunning photography delivered right to your mailbox.
Subscribe
Digital Subscription

Take Autoweek to go on your digital device and get the car news you want, wherever you are.
Subscribe
Free Newsletters

Get the best of autoweek.com – including breaking news, racing updates and daily features.

    My AccountMedia KitContent LicensingRSS Feed
    Privacy Policy and Terms of UseAd ChoicesContact UsSend Us Your Tips

Autoweek Logo

All Content © 2016 Crain Communications, Inc.
Autoweek Newsfeed

