

    U.S. News Home
    News
    Rankings & Advice
        Education
        Health
        Money
        Travel
        Cars
        Law

U.S. News Best Cars Best Cars

    Facebook
    Twitter

Car Rankings & Advice

    Home
    New Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Research Cars
        Best Price Program
        New Car Rankings
        Car Deals this Month
        Compare Cars
        Calculate Car Payment
    Used Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Search Certified Pre-Owned
        Used Car Rankings
        Used Car Deals this Month
        Compare Used Cars
        Calculate Used Car Payment
    Car Rankings
        New Car Rankings
        Used Car Rankings
        Best Cars for the Money
        Best Cars for Families
        Best Vehicle Brands
    Financing
        Finance Center
        Car Payment Calculator
        Affordability Calculator
    News

Find a Car:
GO

    Home > Honda > 2016 Honda Civic > Overview 

Facebook
Twitter
G+
Honda Civic
#1 in Compact Cars Overall Score: 8.9 / 10

    Full Review Photos Prices & Deals Specs Dealer Inventory Repairs 

2016 Honda Civic View More Photos » American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
U.S. News Best Price Program
Don't overpay. Use the U.S. News Best Price Program to find the best local prices on the Civic.
MSRP: $18,640 - $26,500
Find Best Price
2016 Honda Civic Overview

    2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 

The 2016 Honda Civic ranks 1 out of 23 Compact Cars.

The Honda Civic has been a leader among compact cars for decades. In recent years, however, it hasn’t kept pace with competitors like the Mazda3 in regard to handling or the Hyundai Elantra for ... Read full review »

SEATING
5

MPG
26-31

  CITY
38-42

  HWY

DRIVETRAIN
FWD

HP
158-174
See full 2016 Honda Civic specs »
Pros & Cons

    Quiet, premium interior
    Lots of available high-end features
    Spacious rear seats and trunk
    Smooth ride and crisp handling
    Excellent fuel economy for the class
    Outstanding safety and predicted reliability ratings

    Optional touch screen has frustrating controls

Notable for 2016

    Completely redesigned

Honda Civic Rankings and Research

The 2016 Honda Civic ranking is based on its score within the Compact Cars category. Currently the Honda Civic has a score of 8.9 out of 10 which is based on our evaluation of 22 pieces of research and data elements using various sources.
Scorecard
Overall: 	8.9
Critics' Rating: 	9.5
Performance: 	8.4
Interior: 	8.2
Safety: 	10.0
Reliability: 	3_5 JD Power
Rankings

    #1 in Compact Cars
    #1 in Small Cars

Awards

    Winner: 2016 Best Compact Car for the Money
    Finalist: 2016 Best Compact Car for Families

2016 Honda Civic Pictures
2016 Honda Civic Exterior Photos
2016 Honda Civic Exterior Photos
2016 Honda Civic Exterior Photos
2016 Honda Civic Exterior Photos
2016 Honda Civic Exterior Photos See More
Exterior Photos
2016 Honda Civic Interior Photos
2016 Honda Civic Interior Photos
2016 Honda Civic Interior Photos
2016 Honda Civic Interior Photos
2016 Honda Civic Interior Photos See More
Interior Photos
2016 Honda Civic Review

    Full Review Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

By Martin A Davis Jr May 24, 2016

The Honda Civic has been a leader among compact cars for decades. In recent years, however, it hasn’t kept pace with competitors like the Mazda3 in regard to handling or the Hyundai Elantra for interior flair. Honda went back to the drawing board for the redesigned 2016 Civic, looking to not merely match its rivals’ gains, but rather to learn from luxury class models like the Audi A3. Our analysis of professional reviews reveals that this forward thinking has produced a wholly redesigned Civic that will be a leader for years to come, with a significantly upgraded interior, dynamic handling on winding roads, roomy front and back seats, and outstanding fuel economy.

For all the upgrades, the Civic, which comes as a sedan or coupe, remains a very affordable compact car. The sedan starts at about $18,600 for the base LX trim. If you'd like a few more creature comforts, you can get the EX-L trim nicely equipped with Apple CarPlay, dual-zone climate control, and leather-trimmed seats, to name but a few, for $23,700. Coupe models run slightly higher. It’s also a very safe car that should last you a long time. The Civic earned the highest crash-test scores in its class, as well as the best projected reliability rating, and it comes with a three-year/36,000-mile warranty and a five-year/60,000-mile powertrain warranty.
Civic Performance

With the best combination of positive reviews and long-term ownership costs in its class, the Honda Civic is our 2016 Best Compact Car for the Money. 
Handles Like an Audi?

Honda engineers looked to the Audi A3 as the car they most wanted the all-new Civic to drive like. They created a car that rides closer to the ground and is wider than it was before.

The result? It feels glued to the road, handles curves with grace, and delivers sporty handling in and out of curves. The improvements in handling haven’t stiffened the Civic’s comfortable ride, however, meaning long-distance commuters will enjoy a smooth drive. Sound dampening is exceptional in most driving situations, ensuring a quiet ride too.
Peppy-ish Engine, Droning Transmission

For a compact car, the Civic’s two engine options deliver relatively good power. The base LX trim comes with a 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine that puts out 158 horsepower. How peppy that engine feels in the base model will depend on the transmission you pair it with. Some test drivers point out that with the standard, manual transmission, you can enjoy a good deal of pep from this engine. Opt for the automatic, a continuously variable transmission (CVT), and you’ll find that the car feels less powerful and exhibits a whining noise at highway speeds that is typical of CVTs. The CVT is the only transmission available on EX and higher sedan trims.

For a punchier driving experience, opt for the turbocharged 1.5-liter four-cylinder engine. It delivers 174 horsepower and noticeably quicker acceleration. This engine is not available on the base LX trim, but comes standard with higher trims.

Fuel economy with either engine is excellent for the class. The sedan with the base engine and automatic transmission gets 31 mpg in the city and 41 on the highway – great numbers if you’re a long-distance commuter. The turbocharged engine gets the same city mileage and does slightly better on the highway with 42 mpg. The coupe’s fuel economy ratings are nearly identical.

Read more about performance »
Civic Interior
Stepped up Interior

The attempt to hold the redesigned Civic to a higher standard didn’t end with improving the handling; it carried over into the interior, as well. You notice it first in the soft-touch materials that are used throughout the car, even in the base LX trim. If you go for the top-of-the-line Touring trim, you’ll enjoy a cabin that some reviewers compare to the Accord and even some lower-end Acuras.

Seating is also pleasant. Taller folks will find plenty of head- and legroom in the sedan, whether they’re driving the car or riding in the back seat. Up front, the bucket seats offer plenty of support. A standard tilt-and-telescoping steering wheel makes it easy for you to find a comfortable driving position, while standard automatic climate control helps ensure your cabin stays at a constant temperature.
Give Me a Volume Knob

A 5-inch display screen comes standard, and a 7-inch touch screen is available. But bigger doesn’t necessarily mean better. In this case, if you choose the 7-inch screen, you’ll have to do without a knob for volume control. How to raise the sound level? You have two options. One is to use the touch-screen control, which is awkward to manipulate when driving and takes several swipes if you want to raise it more than a few decibels. The other is a volume control on the steering wheel. That works better, but it will leave you wondering why they didn’t simply put a knob on the center stack. The Civic’s infotainment system simply isn’t as inviting as the one in the 2017 Hyundai Elantra.

Both Apple Carplay and Android Auto are optional but probably worth the investment, as these tools allow you to avoid using Honda’s proprietary system in many instances. Automotive critics report that both systems connect easily to your phone and are simple to use.
Practical, Spacious Storage

When it comes to trunk space, the Civic sedan’s 15.2 cubic feet is nearly unrivaled in this class. The Nissan Sentra has the same amount, while the Volkswagen Jetta has slightly more, with 15.7 cubic feet. If you want more space, you’ll need to buy a hatchback like the Kia Soul or VW Golf. If you opt for the coupe, cargo volume falls to 12.1 cubic feet.

More important than overall space, however, is how easy the Civic is to load. Its low bumper means you don’t have to lift things very high to get them into the trunk. If you need more space for longer items, the trunk has release levers that drop the 60/40 split-folding seats.

For storing items in the car, the center console is big enough to handle an iPad. And the two-level storage compartment provides a convenient place to store your mobile phone.
Options, Trims, and Pricing

While this completely redesigned 2016 Civic is significantly more comfortable inside, its price tag keeps it competitive with class rivals. Both the coupe and the sedan are available in the base LX trim, which runs about $19,000. The LX comes standard with a 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine and a six-speed manual transmission. It also has a rearview camera, Bluetooth, a USB port, and automatic climate control.

Many people will want to add the automatic transmission (CVT), which is optional on the LX sedan and raises the price about $800. You can get the CVT in the coupe by stepping up to the LX-P trim, which also adds a power moonroof, push-button start, and remote engine start.

The sedan is available in three EX level trims: EX, EX-T, and EX-L, which range in price from $21,000 to about $24,000. Features include the more-potent 1.5-liter turbocharged engine (only on the EX-T and EX-L trims) and a number of desirable interior upgrades, including Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, a 7-inch touch screen, dual-zone climate control, and a 10-speaker audio system. The coupe is available in EX-T and EX-L trims (ranging from $22,300 to $23,400), and these come equipped with the turbocharged engine, CVT, and many of the same options as the sedan.

At the top of the line is the Touring model, which starts at about $26,500. In addition to everything listed above, the Touring model includes navigation and Honda Sensing, a collection of safety features that work together to help you prevent accidents. These features include road departure mitigation, which will pull you back onto the road if it senses you drifting, and collision mitigation braking, which will apply the brakes if it senses an imminent collision.

Read more about interior »
Civic Safety and Reliability

While the Honda Civic has long scored well on crash tests, the 2016 model has taken safety to new heights. In both Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration crash tests, the Honda Civic received the highest possible scores. No other car in this class did as well, though the Kia Soul and Mazda3 came close.

A rearview camera is standard on all Civics. Some other cars, such as the Ford Focus, Buick Verano, and Subaru Impreza, offer it too, but most vehicles in this class make it optional. EX trims for both the sedan and coupe come with LaneWatch, which uses a camera under the passenger-side mirror to show you vehicles in the car's blind spot. It can be turned on manually, or it comes on automatically whenever you activate your right turn signal.

The Touring model adds six safety systems designed to keep you in your lane and on the road and to help mitigate collisions. Collectively, these systems are called Honda Sensing, and the IIHS rates it as superior. The suite of features includes collision mitigation, which will stop your car if a crash is imminent, forward collision warning, road departure warning, lane departure warning, lane keep assist, and adaptive cruise control, which maintains a constant distance between you and the car in front of you. Honda Sensing is available on any sedan trim. For the coupe, however, you’ll have to purchase the top-of-the-line Touring trim to access these features.

In terms of predicted reliability, the Honda Civic leads the class (along with the Toyota Corolla), scoring 4.5 out of five in our rankings that are based on the J.D. Power analysis of how well a car should hold up over time. In short, so long as you maintain your car, you should enjoy years of dependable transportation.

Read more about safety »
Other Cars to Consider

If a performance-focused small car is your top priority, you should look closely at the Mazda3. Many test drivers say that the Mazda3’s handling is unrivaled in this class, allowing you to push the car aggressively through turns. Moreover, both of its four-cylinder engines are potent and are paired with a manual transmission that is among the silkiest on the market. An automatic transmission that responds quickly to your driving needs is available.

The Kia Forte isn’t the sportiest car in the compact market, but it has excellent room in the back seat for full-size adults to sit comfortably. Up front, the driver will find it easy to set up a good driving position, and the outward view is excellent. Unlike the Civic, the Forte has knobs and buttons to help you navigate through commonly used audio functions.

Compare the Civic, Mazda3, and Forte in more detail »
Details: 2016 Honda Civic

The Honda Civic has been completely redesigned for the 2016 model year. The 2016 Civic seats five and is available in both coupe and sedan body styles that have five trim levels each: The Coupe is available in LX, LX-P, EX-T, EX-L, and Touring trims, and the sedan is available in LX, EX, EX-T, EX-L, and Touring trims. The Civic comes standard with a 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine, front-wheel drive, and a six-speed manual transmission. An automatic transmission (CVT) is available. EX-T and higher trims have a turbocharged 1.5-liter four-cylinder engine paired exclusively with a CVT.

Standard features include a rearview camera, automatic climate control, Bluetooth, Pandora internet radio compatibility, and a USB port. Available features include heated front and rear seats, leather upholstery, a moonroof, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto smartphone integration, an eight- or 10-speaker audio system, a touch-screen infotainment system, satellite radio, navigation, and the Honda Sensing package, which includes forward collision warning, automatic pre-collision braking, active lane keep assist, and adaptive cruise control.

See 2016 Honda Civic specs and trims »

    "No longer a strong buy on name recognition alone, the 2016 Honda Civic is a genuinely good car that is now leading the compact sedan class. Stylish,... -- Left Lane News
    "The all-new compact is a return to the kind of car that made the Civic a favorite with generations of Americans: fun to drive, fuel efficient and... -- The Detroit Free Press
    "Aggressive targets and excellent engineering have wrought a Civic that should be one of the best cars in the segment to drive and live with." -- Autoblog

ADVERTISEMENT – CONTINUE READING BELOW
Research Prices: 2016 Honda Civic

Over 75,000 car shoppers have purchased a car through the U.S. News Best Price Program. Our pricing beats the national average 86% of the time with shoppers receiving average savings of $3,279 off MSRP across vehicles. See what others paid for the Honda Civic and get upfront pricing to make sure you don't overpay. Learn More »
MSRP: $18,640 - $26,500
Find the best local price: submit
Learn More

    Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

Next Steps: Honda Civic

    Calculate monthly payment and apply for a loan
    See what others paid for the 2016 Honda Civic
    Search used Honda Civic for sale (34,671 listings)
    See Compact Cars rankings
    New Car Deals Lease Deals Used Car Deals

News & Advice on the 2016 Honda Civic

    10 Cars That Are All New for 2016 8 Cars That Debuted at the Los Angeles Auto Show 8 New Cars That Made Their Debuts at the 2015 LA Auto Show 2016 Honda Civic The New 2016 Honda Civic: 8 Changes You Should Know About 2016 Volvo XC90 North American Car and Truck of the Year Finalists: Best Finance and Lease Offers 2016 Models 9 Most Significant 2016 Models (and Whether They're Right for You) 2016 Hyundai Tucson Top-Ranked Cars and SUVs for 2016 Lease Deals Under $200 Lease a Top-Ranked Car for Under $200 a Month 2016 Best Car for the Money Awards 2016 Best Cars for the Money The Best Deals on the 2016 Best Cars for the Money 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Sporty Cars with Great Gas Mileage NYIAS Best Debuts at the 2016 New York International Auto Show Head to Head: Civic vs. Focus Head to Head: 2016 Honda Civic vs. 2016 Ford Focus 2016 GMC Terrain Built for a Marathon: Most Reliable Cars of 2016 2016 Honda Civic Honda Civic vs. Toyota Corolla: Which Should You Buy? 2016 Hyundai Genesis Safest Cars for Families 2016 Jeep Wrangler Unlimited Top Independence Day Car Deals on Best-Selling Cars and SUVs Best Cars for Teens Best Cars for Teens Best Commuter Cars Best Cars for Commuting Best Commuter Cars The Safest Cars for 2016 Mercedes-Benz CLA Best New Cars for Millennials Your Guide to Alternative Fuel Vehicles 

Rankings: Compact Cars

    #1 2016 Honda Civic
    #1 2016 Mazda Mazda3
    #3 2016 Kia Soul

See Full Rankings | Compare These Cars
ADVERTISEMENT
U.S. News Best Cars Awards
Best Cars Awards
Best Cars for the Money
Best Cars for Families
Best Vehicle Brands
Civic Shoppers Should Also Consider...

    2016 Mazda Mazda3
    2016 Mazda Mazda3
    #1 in Compact Cars
    2016 Toyota Corolla
    2016 Toyota Corolla
    #14 in Compact Cars
    2016 Ford Focus
    2016 Ford Focus
    #9 in Compact Cars
    2016 Toyota Camry
    2016 Toyota Camry
    #1 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Ford Explorer
    2016 Ford Explorer
    #15 in Midsize SUVs

    How We Rank New Cars How We Rank Used Cars Contact Us Site Map About U.S. News U.S. News Home 

Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy. Copyright 2016 © U.S. News Rankings & Reviews

