

    U.S. News Home
    News
    Rankings & Advice
        Education
        Health
        Money
        Travel
        Cars
        Law

U.S. News Best Cars Best Cars

    Facebook
    Twitter

Car Rankings & Advice

    Home
    New Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Research Cars
        Best Price Program
        New Car Rankings
        Car Deals this Month
        Compare Cars
        Calculate Car Payment
    Used Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Search Certified Pre-Owned
        Used Car Rankings
        Used Car Deals this Month
        Compare Used Cars
        Calculate Used Car Payment
    Car Rankings
        New Car Rankings
        Used Car Rankings
        Best Cars for the Money
        Best Cars for Families
        Best Vehicle Brands
    Financing
        Finance Center
        Car Payment Calculator
        Affordability Calculator
    News

Find a Car:
GO

    Home > Kia > 2016 Kia Soul > Overview 

Facebook
Twitter
G+
Kia Soul
#3 in Compact Cars Overall Score: 8.8 / 10

    Full Review Photos Prices & Deals Specs Dealer Inventory Repairs 

2016 Kia Soul View More Photos »
U.S. News Best Price Program
Don't overpay. Use the U.S. News Best Price Program to find the best local prices on the Soul.
MSRP: $15,900 - $35,950
Find Best Price
2016 Kia Soul Overview

    2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 

The 2016 Kia Soul ranks 3 out of 23 Compact Cars.

The 2016 Kia Soul has a lot more going for it than a dancing hamster advertising campaign. For families on a budget, it is one of the most spacious compact cars available. It has superior ... Read full review »

SEATING
5

MPG
24

  CITY
30-31

  HWY

DRIVETRAIN
FWD

HP
109-164
See full 2016 Kia Soul specs »
Pros & Cons

    Ample cargo and passenger space
    Premium cabin
    Lots of available features
    Long powertrain warranty

    Sluggish acceleration with base engine
    Low fuel economy for the class

Notable for 2016

    Now available with forward collision and lane departure warnings

Kia Soul Rankings and Research

The 2016 Kia Soul ranking is based on its score within the Compact Cars category. Currently the Kia Soul has a score of 8.8 out of 10 which is based on our evaluation of 29 pieces of research and data elements using various sources.
Scorecard
Overall: 	8.8
Critics' Rating: 	8.9
Performance: 	7.3
Interior: 	8.5
Safety: 	9.7
Reliability: 	4_5 JD Power
Rankings

    #3 in Compact Cars
    #2 in Hatchbacks
    #3 in Small Cars

Awards

    Winner: 2016 Best Compact Car for Families
    Winner: 2016 Best Hatchback for Families
    Finalist: 2016 Best Compact Car for the Money
    Finalist: 2016 Best Hatchback for the Money

2016 Kia Soul Pictures
2016 Kia Soul Exterior Photos
2016 Kia Soul Exterior Photos
2016 Kia Soul Exterior Photos
2016 Kia Soul Exterior Photos
2016 Kia Soul Exterior Photos See More
Exterior Photos
2016 Kia Soul Interior Photos
2016 Kia Soul Interior Photos
2016 Kia Soul Interior Photos
2016 Kia Soul Interior Photos
2016 Kia Soul Interior Photos See More
Interior Photos
2016 Kia Soul Review

    Full Review Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

By Carter Macleod May 27, 2016

The 2016 Kia Soul has a lot more going for it than a dancing hamster advertising campaign. For families on a budget, it is one of the most spacious compact cars available. It has superior projected reliability ratings and crash-test scores and a five-year warranty. It also makes a wide range of options available so that you can dress up your Soul the way you want. Of course, that comes at a price. A fully loaded Soul with all options and accessories can almost double the nearly $16,000 price of the base model.

Where the Soul falls is its engine. Our analysis of automotive reviews shows that the base engine is fine around town, but it doesn't have much in the way of highway passing power. The larger four cylinder option is better, so long as your trip doesn’t include a lot of steep hills. Fuel economy isn't one of the Soul's strong suits either. These are flaws that can't be overlooked, but neither do they take away from all the things the car does well.

For these reasons, with the best combination of interior space, safety and reliability ratings, and available family-friendly features in its class, the Kia Soul is our 2016 Best Compact Car for Families and Best Hatchback for Families.
Soul Interior
Stunning Space

You expect some compromises when you buy a compact car, and space is one thing that is usually sacrificed at the altar of cheaper prices. Not with the 2016 Soul. There’s a generous 24.2 cubic feet of storage space behind the rear seat – more than enough to hold camping gear or suitcases for a three-day getaway. Some cars come close to this number: the Hyundai Elantra GT hatchback (23), Nissan Leaf (24), and Volkswagen Golf (22.9).

Drop the rear seat, however, and the Soul is in a class unto itself, providing 61.3 cubic feet of storage space. How much space is that? More than what you’ll find in larger 2-row subcompact SUVs like the Chevy Trax (48.4) or Mazda CX-3 (44.5)
Nicely Appointed

At its core, the Soul’s interior is put together well with high-quality materials that create a hip space for driver and passengers. From there, you can option it up to your heart’s delight. From the predictable heated front and rear seats and leather upholstery to a number of nifty design touches.

But save your pennies. A fully loaded Soul can push above $31,000.
Have a Seat

The specs say the Soul will seat five. What’s surprising is how comfortably it handles four adults. Thanks to the car’s cube design and high roof line, you and your next-door neighbors can ride to dinner comfortably. You can upgrade from cloth to leather and also get heated and ventilated front seats.
Feel the Groove

The Soul uses the UVO infotainment system. The name has an alien feel (UFO, UVO, get it?), but there’s nothing about the system that is other-worldly or hard to understand. You can connect your phone quickly to the system via Bluetooth and then access your playlist and your contacts.

The available 4.3-inch touch screen is small, but it responds instantly to commands. Step up to a model equipped with voice-controlled navigation, and you'll get an 8-inch display that reviewers report is crystal clear.

If you enjoy your music, you’ll appreciate the available Infinity audio system that comes with both a subwoofer and external amplifier for eardrum-popping sound.

Options, Trims, and Pricing

The Soul has a starting price of just under $16,000 for the base model. Tech lovers will be happy to learn that Bluetooth and a USB port are standard. And drivers will appreciate the tilt-and-telescoping steering wheel. The 4.3-inch touch-screen display and rearview camera, however, are optional.

For about another $3,500, you can step up to the Soul + trim, which makes the touch screen and rearview camera standard. You’ll also enjoy remote keyless entry. A wide range of options become available with the + trim. These include an Infinity audio system, voice-controlled navigation with an 8-inch display screen, a start-stop engine feature that helps save gas by shutting down the engine at stoplights, push-button start, leather seats, and automatic climate control, among others.

The top-of-the-line Soul ! begins at about $21,300 and comes standard with everything on the + trim, as well as an auto-dimming rearview mirror, leather upholstery, a 10-way power-adjustable driver’s seat with lumbar support, and a leather-wrapped steering wheel.

As with the + trim, you can add a large number of options and accessories to the ! trim. But the price can quickly move above $31,000.

If you live in an area where you can get the all-electric Soul EV, the base EV-e trim starts at about $32,000. The top-of-the line EV+ trim starts at just under $36,000.

Read more about interior »
Soul Performance
Hamster-Like Power

For all the Soul’s cool looks and vibe, there’s not a lot going on under the hood. The base engine is a 1.6-liter four cylinder that produces 130 horsepower. Paired with the standard six-speed manual transmission (a six-speed automatic is available), it’ll get you around town fine. If you’re planning a trip to the mountains, however, you’d better stay in the right lane.

Fortunately, there’s an available 2.0-liter four-cylinder motor that puts out a bit more power (164 horses). It comes standard with an automatic transmission. While it won’t up your adrenaline, it will produce enough oomph to move you onto the highway with a bit more ease.
Clear Your Gas Card

The Soul’s fuel economy isn’t horrible, but if you’re hoping to save a bunch of money by buying a compact car, you might want to look at another model.

With the base engine, the Soul returns 24 mpg in the city and 30 over the highway. Step up to the larger four cylinder, and the numbers improve marginally. You’ll get the same mpg in the city, and 31 on the highway.
Charge it Up

In a limited number of states, you can purchase the all-electric Soul EV. Its 109-horsepower motor doesn't make it particularly fast, but on a full charge you can cover some 93 miles. If you use a 240-volt outlet to charge, you can juice the car up in three hours. Charge it from a 120-volt outlet in your home, and it’ll take 24 hours.
Smooth Sailing

You will enjoy a fairly quiet, smooth ride in the Soul once you are up to speed. And while its boxy shape suggests this car won't handle winding roads very well, you'll find that it delivers better handling than you might think. If it’s really dynamic driving you’re after, though, look to the Mazda3 or even the Fiat 500L.

When it’s time to stop, whether you are easing the car down as you approach a stop sign or have to hit the brakes hard to avoid an accident, the brakes provide reassuring stopping power.

Read more about performance »
Soul Safety and Reliability

In terms of crashworthiness, the Soul earns top scores and a Top Safety Pick rating from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. It does almost as well in the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s crash tests, earning perfect scores (five out of five stars) in three of the four categories. The Soul falters only in the rollover test, where it earns four out of five stars.

If there’s an area where the Soul is lacking, it’s in the availability of active safety features – technology designed to help you avoid crashes. Lane departure warning, which alerts you if you are drifting out of your lane, and forward collision warning, which will signal if you’re closing too rapidly on a car in front of you, can only be purchased as optional features on the top ! trim. A rearview camera to assist you in backing up is optional on the base model, and standard on the + and ! trims. More advanced features like pre-collision braking are not available.

In terms of reliability, the Soul is a car that shouldn’t cost you a lot in repairs. J.D. Power ranks the Soul “Better Than Most,” its second-highest rating, in terms of predicted reliability. Only the Toyota Corolla and Honda Civic score better in this class.

If you do run into problems, the Soul is covered with a five-year/60,000-mile warranty.

Read more about safety »

Other Cars to Consider

While the Soul provides a reasonably dynamic driving experience, if the ability to carve corners is a driving factor for your purchase, you should look to the Mazda3. It’s one of the top-handling cars in the class, and the available 2.5-liter engine delivers pleasing thrust. Moreover, the Mazda3 dusts the Soul in fuel economy, earning 29 mpg in the city and a class-leading (among nonhybrids) 42 mpg on the highway.

The redesigned 2016 Honda Civic should also be on your shopping list. In addition to class-leading scores in crash tests, its active safety features are among the best available anywhere. The available Honda Sensing system is a suite of safety features that will help you avoid collisions if the system senses one is imminent. The system is available with any Honda Civic. The Civic also gets outstanding fuel economy and is one of the two most reliable cars in this class (along with the Toyota Corolla).

Compare the Soul, Mazda3, and Civic in more detail »
Details: 2016 Kia Soul

The 2016 Kia Soul is a five-seat, front-wheel drive hatchback that comes in three trim levels: base, Plus (+), and Exclaim (!). The base Soul has a 1.6-liter four-cylinder engine, while Plus and Exclaim trims have a more powerful 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine. A six-speed manual transmission is standard and a six-speed automatic is optional. The all-electric Kia Soul EV is only sold in select states. The Soul was completely redesigned for the 2014 model year and has seen few major updates since. As a result, this overview uses applicable research and reviews from the 2014 through 2016 model years.

Standard features include a USB port, a six-speaker audio system, satellite radio, and Bluetooth. Available features include Kia's UVO infotainment system, which can connect with your smartphone, a 4.3-inch touch-screen audio display, navigation with an 8-inch touch screen, a rearview camera, an Infinity audio system, HD Radio, push-button start, automatic climate control, a panoramic sunroof, forward collision warning, lane departure warning, leather seats, a power-adjustable driver’s seat, heated front seats, ventilated front seats, a heated steering wheel, and heated rear seats.

    "Beyond its hip good looks and catchy ad campaign (we know you've seen the dancing hamsters by now), the Soul offers solid affordable transportation with an amazing... -- Kelley Blue Book
    "The competitively priced Soul is a very compelling mix of personality and practicality." -- Consumer Guide (2015)

    "Proving once and for all that it's hip to be square, the Kia Soul stands out from other compacts with a unique look that manages to be... -- Left Lane News

See 2016 Soul Specs and Trims »
ADVERTISEMENT – CONTINUE READING BELOW
Research Prices: 2016 Kia Soul

Over 75,000 car shoppers have purchased a car through the U.S. News Best Price Program. Our pricing beats the national average 86% of the time with shoppers receiving average savings of $3,279 off MSRP across vehicles. See what others paid for the Kia Soul and get upfront pricing to make sure you don't overpay. Learn More »
MSRP: $15,900 - $35,950
Find the best local price: submit
Learn More

    Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

Next Steps: Kia Soul

    Calculate monthly payment and apply for a loan
    See what others paid for the 2016 Kia Soul
    Search used Kia Soul for sale (17,428 listings)
    See Compact Cars rankings
    New Car Deals Lease Deals Used Car Deals

News & Advice on the 2016 Kia Soul

    Black Friday Car Deals 2015 Best Black Friday Car Deals Best March Car Deals for Families The Best Deals on the 2016 Best Cars for Families The Best Cars for Families 2016 Best Cars for Families 2016 Volkswagen Golf Safest Small Cars of 2016 cool dad cars 11 of the Best Family Cars for Cool Dads Best Electric Cars Best Electric Cars 2016 Ford Escape Best Car Discounts for Military and Recent College Graduates The Best Cars for 'Star Wars' What Would Kylo Ren Drive? The Best Cars for 'Star Wars' 2016 Jeep Wrangler Unlimited Top Independence Day Car Deals on Best-Selling Cars and SUVs 2016 Chevrolet Corvette Best Cars for Baby Boomers These Cars Can Keep Tabs on Your Teen Driver Best Cars for Teens Best Cars for Teens Cheap Electric Cars Chevrolet Volt 12 Best City Cars 2017 Chevrolet Bolt EV The World's Coolest Battery-Electric Vehicles 

Rankings: Compact Cars

    #1 2016 Honda Civic
    #1 2016 Mazda Mazda3
    #3 2016 Kia Soul

See Full Rankings | Compare These Cars
ADVERTISEMENT
U.S. News Best Cars Awards
Best Cars Awards
Best Cars for the Money
Best Cars for Families
Best Vehicle Brands
ADVERTISEMENT
Soul Shoppers Should Also Consider...

    2016 Mazda Mazda3
    2016 Mazda Mazda3
    #1 in Compact Cars
    2016 Ford Fiesta
    2016 Ford Fiesta
    #3 in Subcompact Cars
    2016 Honda Fit
    2016 Honda Fit
    #1 in Subcompact Cars
    2017 Kia Sportage
    2017 Kia Sportage
    #3 in Compact SUVs
    2016 Ford Focus
    2016 Ford Focus
    #9 in Compact Cars

    How We Rank New Cars How We Rank Used Cars Contact Us Site Map About U.S. News U.S. News Home 

Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy. Copyright 2016 © U.S. News Rankings & Reviews

