

    U.S. News Home
    News
    Rankings & Advice
        Education
        Health
        Money
        Travel
        Cars
        Law

U.S. News Best Cars Best Cars

    Facebook
    Twitter

Car Rankings & Advice

    Home
    New Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Research Cars
        Best Price Program
        New Car Rankings
        Car Deals this Month
        Compare Cars
        Calculate Car Payment
    Used Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Search Certified Pre-Owned
        Used Car Rankings
        Used Car Deals this Month
        Compare Used Cars
        Calculate Used Car Payment
    Car Rankings
        New Car Rankings
        Used Car Rankings
        Best Cars for the Money
        Best Cars for Families
        Best Vehicle Brands
    Financing
        Finance Center
        Car Payment Calculator
        Affordability Calculator
    News

Find a Car:
GO

    Home > Cadillac > 2016 Cadillac CTS > Overview 

Facebook
Twitter
G+
Cadillac CTS
#2 in Luxury Midsize Cars Overall Score: 8.9 / 10

    Full Review Photos Prices & Deals Specs Dealer Inventory Repairs 

2016 Cadillac CTS View More Photos »
U.S. News Best Price Program
Don't overpay. Use the U.S. News Best Price Program to find the best local prices on the CTS.
MSRP: $45,560 - $83,995
Find Best Price
2016 Cadillac CTS Overview

    2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 

The 2016 Cadillac CTS ranks 2 out of 16 Luxury Midsize Cars.

Our analysis shows that the 2016 Cadillac CTS is worth putting at the top of your shopping list, as it should check off most boxes you would want in a luxury midsize car. It is ... Read full review »

SEATING
5

MPG
14-21

  CITY
21-31

  HWY

DRIVETRAIN
RWD, AWD

HP
268-640
See full 2016 Cadillac CTS specs »
Pros & Cons

    Strong engine options
    Composed handling
    Premium cabin materials

    Unrefined base engine
    Cramped back seats

Notable for 2016

    Updated 3.6-liter V6 engine
    Upgraded CUE infotainment interface
    Apple CarPlay and Android Auto available
    New eight-speed automatic transmission
    Rearview camera now standard
    Surround-view parking camera now available
    CTS-V reintroduced

Cadillac CTS Rankings and Research

The 2016 Cadillac CTS ranking is based on its score within the Luxury Midsize Cars category. Currently the Cadillac CTS has a score of 8.9 out of 10 which is based on our evaluation of 31 pieces of research and data elements using various sources.
Scorecard
Overall: 	8.9
Critics' Rating: 	9.3
Performance: 	9.3
Interior: 	7.8
Safety: 	9.5
Reliability: 	3_5 JD Power
Rankings

    #2 in Luxury Midsize Cars

Awards

    Finalist: 2016 Best Upscale Midsize Car for Families

2016 Cadillac CTS Pictures
2016 Cadillac CTS Exterior Photos
2016 Cadillac CTS Exterior Photos
2016 Cadillac CTS Exterior Photos
2016 Cadillac CTS Exterior Photos
2016 Cadillac CTS Exterior Photos See More
Exterior Photos
2016 Cadillac CTS Interior Photos
2016 Cadillac CTS Interior Photos
2016 Cadillac CTS Interior Photos
2016 Cadillac CTS Interior Photos
2016 Cadillac CTS Interior Photos See More
Interior Photos
2016 Cadillac CTS Review

    Full Review Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

By Nate Parsons July 13, 2016

Our analysis shows that the 2016 Cadillac CTS is worth putting at the top of your shopping list, as it should check off most boxes you would want in a luxury midsize car. It is very agile without losing comfort over rough patches of pavement, it has a range of potent engine options, and its interior impresses with comfortable seats and top-notch materials on most surfaces. The CTS earns excellent safety and predicted reliability scores as well.

The only issue that may give you pause is the CTS' unrefined base four-cylinder engine, which isn't particularly powerful and uses more fuel than the four-cylinder engines in most rivals. Reviewers recommend the optional 3.6-liter V6 to overcome the four-cylinder's shortcomings, but you'll pay nearly $8,000 over the base price to get it.
CTS Interior
Comfortable Cabin

The 2016 CTS has a handsome, upscale interior that easily stacks up to those in European rivals like the Mercedes-Benz E-Class and Audi A6. Most materials are high-end, but the standard leatherette upholstery (leather is optional) feels noticeably more low-rent than the rest. The front seats are comfortable and roomy, and the optional Recaro sport seats in the CTS-V are incredibly supportive and adjustable and will keep you comfortable during long hauls. Your passengers in the back seat will likely want more room, so the CTS may not be the best choice if you frequently transport lots of passengers.

You'll get standard dual-zone automatic climate control that lets the driver and the front passenger adjust temperature settings to their own liking. Tri-zone automatic climate control is optional and gives back-seat passengers control of their own space as well. Remote start is standard, so you can heat up or cool down the car as needed before you get into it. You can have a panoramic sunroof to let in sunlight, or if passengers in the back prefer the dark, there are optional sunshades as well.
Limited Cargo Utility

There's only 13.7 cubic feet of cargo room in the CTS' trunk, which is a bit below average for the class. The Jaguar XF offers an impressive 19.1 cubic feet in the trunk if you need more room for your luggage. The CTS' trunk is wide enough to accommodate golf clubs near the opening of the trunk, but the wheel wells make it much narrower the farther in you go. The base model comes with a pass-through in the rear seat to give you room for long, narrow objects, like skis. You'll have to spend more if you want a split-folding rear seat for extra versatility.
Passable Infotainment System

Cadillac updated the CUE infotainment system for 2016 with a more powerful processor and the addition of Apple CarPlay and Android Auto smartphone integration, which let you use some of your phone's apps on the infotainment screen. The system has fairly straightforward menus, but it's still not as intuitive as the systems offered by rivals like the Audi A6, which has a user-friendly and responsive infotainment system.

You won't find many physical controls on the center stack, and those that are there are touch-sensitive rather than buttons that physically move when you press them. The Cadillac's controls are frustrating to use as they don't always respond when you tap them, distracting you from the road as you look down to make them work.

The CTS comes standard with a premium-branded audio system (Bose), which is a bit unusual for the class, as many rivals only offer such systems as options. A Wi-Fi hot spot is another unique features that comes standard. It lets you connect your mobile devices to the internet via a built-in modem and router.

Read more about interior »
CTS Performance
Unrefined Base Engine, Potent Optional Engines

A turbocharged 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine making 268 horsepower comes standard in the 2016 CTS. It feels unrefined compared to the other engines in the lineup, as well as those found in rivals like the Audi A6. The CTS' four-cylinder engine also uses more fuel than four-cylinder competitors. You're better off with one of the optional V6 engines, either the 3.6-liter, which is updated and more powerful for 2016, or the twin-turbocharged 3.6-liter found in the CTS V-Sport model, which delivers even more grunt. Each engine comes with an eight-speed automatic transmission.

The high-performance CTS-V comes with a supercharged 6.2-liter V8 that generates 640 horsepower and 630 pound-feet of torque to chew up the pavement on track days. It delivers exceptional acceleration and more muscle than most drivers will ever use. You'll have no problem overtaking slower drivers at any speed. The CTS-V also has an eight-speed automatic, but it isn't as responsive as the dual-clutch automatics offered in some competing sport sedans.
Subpar Fuel Economy

The CTS' unpolished turbocharged four-cylinder engine is less fuel-efficient than four-cylinder rivals, only getting 21 mpg in the city and 32 mpg on the highway. Compare that with the Audi A6 2.0T, which gets 24 mpg in the city and 35 on the highway, and the BMW 528i, which gets 23/city and 34/highway. You won't sacrifice much fuel economy by stepping up to the 3.6-liter V6 in the CTS, which gets 20 mpg in the city and 30 on the highway.
Sharp Handling                      

Few other luxury midsize sedans can match the CTS' handling prowess. It handles corners with ease, exhibiting little body roll when cornering. The performance-oriented CTS-V is exceptionally agile, whether you're driving along country roads or taking it out on the track. Don't think the CTS forgoes ride comfort in the name of athleticism, though. It's very cushioned as you cruise along, ironing out most bumps in the road.

An adaptive suspension is available, and it adjusts the car's driving dynamics based upon three driver-selectable modes: Tour, Sport, and Track. The adaptive suspension adjusts up to 1,000 times per second to optimize the ride over different road surfaces. All models come standard with rear-wheel drive, and all-wheel drive is optional.

Read more about performance »
CTS Pricing, Options, and Trims

The base 2016 CTS Standard trim starts at $45,560 for a four-cylinder model with rear-wheel drive. All-wheel drive is optional in all trims for $2,000, while a 3.6-liter V6 engine is available in Luxury, Performance, and Premium trims. V6-powered models start at $54,280.

The base Standard trim comes with dual-zone automatic climate control, leatherette upholstery, power-adjustable front seats, an 11-speaker Bose audio system, satellite radio, HD Radio, Bluetooth, an 8-inch touch-screen infotainment system, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto smartphone integration, a Wi-Fi hot spot, wireless mobile device charging, remote start, push-button start, a rearview camera, and rear parking sensors.

Moving up to the Luxury trim, which starts at $51,285, gets you a panoramic sunroof, leather upholstery, heated and ventilated front seats, split-folding rear seats, a heated and power-adjustable steering wheel, a 13-speaker Bose surround-sound system, navigation, and the Driver Awareness Package, which includes forward collision warning, lane keep assist, blind spot monitoring, rear cross traffic alert, and a Safety Alert Seat.

The Performance trim starts at $56,285 and adds tri-zone automatic climate control, heated rear seats, the adaptive suspension, a head-up display, and a 360-degree camera. Priced at $60,685, the Premium trim gets you a digital gauge cluster and the Driver Assist Package, which comes with adaptive cruise control, automatic seat belt tightening, and collision warning with automatic braking.

Priced at $59,955, the CTS V-Sport comes with nearly all the same features as the Luxury trim, but adds some performance-oriented features, including a twin-turbocharged 3.6-liter V6 engine, performance brakes and suspension, a limited slip differential, and a high-capacity engine cooling system. The V-Sport Premium comes with the same performance features as the V-Sport, but its cabin is equipped like the Premium trim, for $69,955. V-Sport models are only available with rear-wheel drive.

The high-performance CTS-V starts at $83,995, and it comes equipped with a supercharged 6.2-liter V8 engine, performance brakes, performance-tuned adaptive suspension, high-capacity engine cooling, and sport seats.

All models come with an eight-speed automatic transmission. If you like features available in higher trims, but don't need all of them, there are many option packages to add an assortment to your car for a couple thousand dollars, depending on the package and its features.

See 2016 Cadillac CTS specs and trims »
CTS Safety and Reliability

The 2016 CTS earns a five-star overall safety rating from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration for its excellent performance in crash tests. Still, in the small overlap front test performed by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, the CTS only earns a Marginal score, while some rivals earn a Good score – the highest possible. The CTS comes standard with a rearview camera and rear parking sensors that aid you when backing up, allowing you to both see what's behind you and receive alerts as you approach nearby objects.

Forward collision warning with automatic braking is an optional feature that will detect if you're too close to something in front of you and will apply the brakes autonomously if necessary to prevent a crash. Active lane keep assist is also available, and it provides steering adjustments to keep you inside your lane. The CTS' safety features operate in conjunction with Cadillac's Safety Alert Seat, which vibrates to notify you when one of the systems detects a dangerous situation.

The CTS earns a higher predicted reliability score than many other upscale midsize cars, but competitors like the Lexus GS and Mercedes-Benz E-Class have even higher ratings. Cadillac covers the CTS with a four-year/50,000-mile bumper-to-bumper warranty and a six-year/70,000-mile powertrain warranty.

Read more about safety »

Read more about reliability »
Other SUVs to Consider

Like the CTS, the Audi A6 combines a posh cabin with thrilling performance. Every engine available delivers plenty of power, from the fuel-efficient four-cylinder up to the muscular twin-turbo V8. The A6 easily tears around corners, especially when equipped with all-wheel drive. It generally rides smoothly, though the suspension is on the firm side, and ride quality is lower on models with optional 20-inch wheels. Inside, there's high-end trim pieces, supportive front seats, and plenty of room in back for tall adults.

If you're more interested in comfort than agility, the Mercedes-Benz E-Class may be a good choice for you. It has a chic interior with top-notch materials, comfortable front seats, and very spacious rear seats. The E-Class' base engine, a turbodiesel four-cylinder, is significantly more fuel-efficient than the CTS' four-cylinder, and it delivers ample power and brisk acceleration. You can choose from a wide range of more powerful engines, including an exceptionally potent twin-turbocharged V8. The E-Class is not the most nimble car in the class, with its suspension more tuned for comfortable cruising than sharp cornering.

Compare the CTS, A6, and E-Class in more detail »
Details: 2016 Cadillac CTS

The 2016 Cadillac CTS sedan seats five and comes in four basic trims: Standard, Luxury, Performance, and Premium. The base CTS comes with a turbocharged 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine, and an updated-for-2016 3.6-liter V6 engine is available. V-Sport and V-Sport Premium models come with a twin-turbocharged 3.6-liter V6 engine. The high-performance CTS-V is reintroduced for 2016, and it has a supercharged 6.2-liter V8 engine. All engines are mated to a new-for-2016 eight-speed automatic transmission. Rear-wheel drive is standard, and all-wheel drive is available with all but the V-Sport and V models. Aside from the aforementioned powertrain changes and some interior technology updates, the CTS hasn't been fully redesigned since 2014. As a result, this overview uses applicable research and reviews from the 2014 through 2016 model years.

Standard features include a rearview camera, Bluetooth, dual-zone automatic climate control, remote start, rear parking sensors, an 11-speaker Bose audio system, satellite radio, Cadillac’s CUE infotainment system with an 8-inch touch screen, hands-free text messaging, and OnStar 4G LTE with a Wi-Fi hot spot.

Optional features include adaptive cruise control, forward collision alert with automatic braking, active lane keep assist, blind spot warning, rear cross traffic alert, parallel and perpendicular parking assist, a safety alert seat (which vibrates to warn the driver that the car is about to hit an obstacle), rain-sensing windshield wipers, a power sunroof, a 110-volt three-prong outlet, a power rear sunshade, rear-window sunshades, tri-zone automatic climate control, a 13-speaker Bose surround-sound audio system, navigation, a head-up display, and a Surround Vision camera system, which provides a bird’s-eye view of the car.

See 2016 Cadillac CTS specs and trims »

    "Ultimately, the CTS easily holds its own in this group. Whether you're looking for performance, luxury or both, Cadillac has a complete package in the 2016 CTS." -- Edmunds
    "It's been a while since Cadillac has truly been able to deliver on the promise of its ‘Standard of the World’ tagline. The athletic ATS sedan comes... -- Left Lane News (2015)
    "In terms of dynamics, performance, luxury, and feature availability, the CTS is a strong competitor to more established upper-line models in the premium-midsize segment, with a bold... -- Consumer Guide (2015)

ADVERTISEMENT – CONTINUE READING BELOW
Research Prices: 2016 Cadillac CTS

Over 75,000 car shoppers have purchased a car through the U.S. News Best Price Program. Our pricing beats the national average 86% of the time with shoppers receiving average savings of $3,279 off MSRP across vehicles. See what others paid for the Cadillac CTS and get upfront pricing to make sure you don't overpay. Learn More »
MSRP: $45,560 - $83,995
Find the best local price: submit
Learn More

    Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

Next Steps: Cadillac CTS

    Calculate monthly payment and apply for a loan
    See what others paid for the 2016 Cadillac CTS
    Search used Cadillac CTS for sale (9,058 listings)
    See Luxury Midsize Cars rankings
    New Car Deals Lease Deals Used Car Deals

News & Advice on the 2016 Cadillac CTS

    Deals on Best Cars for Winter Best Deals on the Best Cars for Winter Driving End of Year Car Deals Best End-of-Year Car Deals 2016 Lexus NX 8 Great Deals on Luxury Cars and SUVs This Month The Quickest Cars Built in the U.S.A. Muscle Made in America: 12 Fast Cars Built in the U.S.A. The Best Cars for 'Star Wars' What Would Kylo Ren Drive? The Best Cars for 'Star Wars' 2016 Tesla Model S Best 4-Door Sports Cars 2016 Dodge Challenger Best Memorial Day Cash Back Deals 2016 Cadillac CTS August's Best Luxury Car Deals 2016 Tesla Model S, Best Luxury Cars Best Luxury Cars Fast Cars for 4 (or More) Chevrolet SS The Most Fun to Drive Cars: 8 Sedans That Make Commuting a Blast 

Rankings: Luxury Midsize Cars

    #1 2016 Audi A6
    #2 2016 Cadillac CTS
    #2 2016 Lexus GS Hybrid

See Full Rankings | Compare These Cars
ADVERTISEMENT
U.S. News Best Cars Awards
Best Cars Awards
Best Cars for the Money
Best Cars for Families
Best Vehicle Brands
ADVERTISEMENT
CTS Shoppers Should Also Consider...

    2016 Lincoln MKZ
    2016 Lincoln MKZ
    #16 in Luxury Midsize Cars
    2016 Cadillac ATS
    2016 Cadillac ATS
    #10 in Luxury Small Cars
    2017 Ford Mustang
    2017 Ford Mustang
    #3 in Sports Cars
    2016 Audi A3
    2016 Audi A3
    #6 in Luxury Small Cars
    2016 Chevrolet Corvette
    2016 Chevrolet Corvette
    #4 in Luxury Sports Cars

    How We Rank New Cars How We Rank Used Cars Contact Us Site Map About U.S. News U.S. News Home 

Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy. Copyright 2016 © U.S. News Rankings & Reviews

