

    U.S. News Home
    News
    Rankings & Advice
        Education
        Health
        Money
        Travel
        Cars
        Law

U.S. News Best Cars Best Cars

    Facebook
    Twitter

Car Rankings & Advice

    Home
    New Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Research Cars
        Best Price Program
        New Car Rankings
        Car Deals this Month
        Compare Cars
        Calculate Car Payment
    Used Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Search Certified Pre-Owned
        Used Car Rankings
        Used Car Deals this Month
        Compare Used Cars
        Calculate Used Car Payment
    Car Rankings
        New Car Rankings
        Used Car Rankings
        Best Cars for the Money
        Best Cars for Families
        Best Vehicle Brands
    Financing
        Finance Center
        Car Payment Calculator
        Affordability Calculator
    News

Find a Car:
GO

    Home > Honda > 2016 Honda Accord > Overview 

Facebook
Twitter
G+
Honda Accord
#1 in Midsize Cars Overall Score: 8.8 / 10

    Full Review Photos Prices & Deals Specs Dealer Inventory Repairs 

2016 Honda Accord View More Photos »
U.S. News Best Price Program
Don't overpay. Use the U.S. News Best Price Program to find the best local prices on the Accord.
MSRP: $22,205 - $34,680
Find Best Price
2016 Honda Accord Overview

    2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 

The 2016 Honda Accord ranks 1 out of 18 Midsize Cars.

The 2016 Honda Accord is a great choice for commuting or driving your family around, our research shows. It has an upscale interior with comfortable, roomy seats and high-end materials all around. Lots of high-tech ... Read full review »

SEATING
5

MPG
18-27

  CITY
28-37

  HWY

DRIVETRAIN
FWD

HP
185-278
See full 2016 Honda Accord specs »
Pros & Cons

    Responsive optional CVT
    Good fuel economy
    Composed handling

    Available touch screen could be more user-friendly

Notable for 2016

    Refreshed styling
    New optional Android Auto, Apple CarPlay, split-folding rear seats, heated rear seats, and front and rear parking sensors

Honda Accord Rankings and Research

The 2016 Honda Accord ranking is based on its score within the Midsize Cars category. Currently the Honda Accord has a score of 8.8 out of 10 which is based on our evaluation of 45 pieces of research and data elements using various sources.
Scorecard
Overall: 	8.8
Critics' Rating: 	9.1
Performance: 	8.1
Interior: 	7.8
Safety: 	9.6
Reliability: 	4_0 JD Power
Rankings

    #1 in Midsize Cars

Awards

    Finalist: 2016 Best Midsize Car for Families

2016 Honda Accord Pictures
2016 Honda Accord Exterior Photos
2016 Honda Accord Exterior Photos
2016 Honda Accord Exterior Photos
2016 Honda Accord Exterior Photos
2016 Honda Accord Exterior Photos See More
Exterior Photos
2016 Honda Accord Interior Photos
2016 Honda Accord Interior Photos
2016 Honda Accord Interior Photos
2016 Honda Accord Interior Photos
2016 Honda Accord Interior Photos See More
Interior Photos
2016 Honda Accord Review

    Full Review Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

By Nate Parsons August 17, 2016

The 2016 Honda Accord is a great choice for commuting or driving your family around, our research shows. It has an upscale interior with comfortable, roomy seats and high-end materials all around. Lots of high-tech infotainment features will help keep you connected while you're on the go. There's ample room in the trunk for hauling groceries, sports gear, or luggage. Advanced driver assistance features are available in any trim to help keep you and your family safe.

The Accord's base engine delivers plenty of power for daily driving, and the optional V6 will give you even more muscle for driving on the highway. An Accord with the base engine and the optional automatic transmission (CVT) gets excellent fuel economy, helping you save money at the pump. The ride is smooth over uneven roads, and handling around corners is sharp and composed. The Accord earns similar reliability and safety scores to competitors.
Accord Interior
Classy Cabin

Honda refreshed the Accord's interior styling for 2016, and it has a handsome, contemporary design. Soft-touch, premium materials abound, including some metal trim pieces. Fit and finish are commendable, though some competitors, like the Mazda6, feel more polished. Depending on trim level, you'll be able to choose from cloth or leather upholstery in gray, tan, or black.

The front seats are comfortable and provide modest support in both sedan and coupe models. Power-adjustable, heated front seats are available to help you get as comfortable as possible for long trips. The sedan's rear seats are some of the roomiest in the class, with ample head- and legroom, and they also have the option of being heated. In coupe models, the back seats are confined, with only enough room for a couple adults on short trips, though that is common for a coupe. No matter where you're sitting, you'll have a great view out of the Accord thanks to its narrow roof pillars and tall windows.

Accord sedan models have 15.8 cubic feet of trunk space, which is more than most rivals offer. The Accord coupe only has 13.7 cubic feet, which is a bit low for a midsize car but consistent with what you'd get in sportier coupes like the Ford Mustang. Both Accord body styles come standard with a rear seatback that folds in one piece to give you more trunk room for long items. The sedan can be equipped with a 60/40 split-folding rear seatback that lets you haul longer items while leaving one or two seats available for passengers.
High-Tech Infotainment System

All Accord models come with an 8-inch display atop the center stack that shows climate and audio information. Bluetooth is standard, so you can connect your phone to the system to play music or answer calls and texts. Dual-zone automatic climate control is also standard, letting you and the front passenger set the temperature differently for your respective sides of the car.

Higher trims come equipped with a 7-inch touch screen mounted below the 8-inch screen. Models so equipped have Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, which lets you use some of your smartphone's apps on the infotainment system screen. The touch screen also responds to gestures like pinching and swiping, so it is simple to use if you're used to smartphones and tablets. Still, you may find changing some climate or audio settings to be frustrating using the touch screen.
Options, Trims, and Pricing

The base 2016 Honda Accord LX sedan starts at around $22,200 and comes standard with a manual transmission, a rearview camera, an 8-inch dashboard display, Bluetooth, and dual-zone automatic climate control. The Sport trim (priced at about $24,300) adds a 10-way power-adjustable driver's seat and 60/40 split-folding rear seats, in addition to exterior and performance features like larger wheels and a dual exhaust system.

Starting around $25,600, the EX sedan comes with Honda's LaneWatch blind spot camera, a power moonroof, push-button start, satellite radio, HD Radio, and a 7-inch touch-screen display (in addition to the 8-inch display screen) with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. LX, Sport, and EX trims can be equipped with an automatic transmission (CVT) for $800. Honda Sensing, a suite of driver assistance features, can also be added for $1,800, but it's only available in models equipped with the automatic transmission.

The EX-L trim comes with the automatic transmission as standard, along with leather upholstery and heated front seats for around $28,700. The EX-L V6, starting around $30,800, is equipped with the same features as the EX-L, though it has a more powerful V6 engine and a six-speed automatic transmission. You can add navigation and Honda Sensing to the EX-L and EX-L V6 trims for around $2,000.

The top-of-the-line Touring model is priced around $34,700, and it comes standard with the V6, a six-speed automatic transmission, front and rear parking sensors, and automatic windshield wipers.

Coupe models come equipped similarly to each corresponding sedan trim and range in price from around $23,900 for the base LX-S coupe to around $34,200 for the Touring coupe.

You can save money on the 2016 Accord using our U.S. News Best Price Program, or check out the great manufacturer incentives on our Honda deals page.

Read more about interior »
Accord Safety and Reliability

The 2016 Accord performs well in crash tests, earning a Top Safety Pick+ designation from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety and a five-star Overall Rating from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 

Just a few years ago, advanced driver assistance features were only available in high-end luxury cars. Now they're filtering down to more affordable models. Honda Sensing is the suite of crash avoidance systems you can get in the Accord (and other Honda vehicles), and unlike most competitors' systems, which are only available with the highest trims, you can have Honda Sensing with even the base model.

Honda Sensing includes lane keep assist, which monitors your position in the lane and can automatically steer you back to the center if you start to drift. Forward collision warning will alert you if you get too close to another vehicle or object in front of you and will automatically apply the brakes to minimize any damage, if a crash is likely. Some models come with Honda LaneWatch, which uses a camera in the passenger-side mirror to give you a view of cars that may be in your blind spot.

The Accord earns a typical predicted reliability score for the class from J.D. Power.

Read more about safety »
Accord Performance
Decent Power from Base Engine

The Accord comes standard with a 2.4-liter four-cylinder engine that makes 185 horsepower (189 horsepower in the Sport trim). A six-speed manual transmission is standard and an automatic transmission (CVT) is available. The four-cylinder makes ample power for high-speed driving on the freeway or driving up and over hills. The CVT makes good use of the engine's muscle, providing more power when you need it, unlike some CVTs that feel sluggish and unresponsive.

With the four-cylinder engine and the six-speed manual transmission, you'll get up to 23 mpg driving around town and 34 mpg on the highway, which is poor for the class. Accords with the CVT are more efficient, however, with fuel economy estimates of 27 mpg in the city and 37 on the highway, which is great for a midsize car.
Pricey but Potent V6 Option

The Accord is one of the few midsize family sedans that still offers a V6 option. Several class competitors have ditched the V6 option in favor of a more-efficient turbocharged four-cylinder engine option. In the Accord, you can have a 3.5-liter V6 that generates 278 horsepower, which will deliver quicker acceleration and more muscle for highway passing. However, a few automotive critics found that the six-speed automatic transmission that comes with the V6 responds slowly when more power is needed.

Also, the V6 will empty your wallet faster than the four-cylinder will. A base four-cylinder Accord is priced at around $22,200. A V6-powered Accord will cost you between $8,500 and $12,500 more, depending on which trim you choose. You'll pay more at the pump, too, because a model with a V6 only gets 21 mpg in the city and 34 on the highway.
Smooth Ride

The Accord's suspension and power steering system were revised for 2016. Around corners, the car stays poised and level, and you'll barely notice any bumps in the road. The revised steering system is very responsive, which will help you maneuver around tight spaces. Still, some competitors are more fun to drive.

Read more about performance »
Other Cars to Consider

The Mazda6 is one of the sportiest cars in the class. It is nimble around corners and has precise steering. It's only available with one engine, but it makes plenty of power for highway or city driving. The Mazda6 gets similar fuel economy estimates to the Accord. The Mazda6's cabin is filled with upscale materials, and its back seat is exceptionally spacious. The Mazda6's infotainment system is very easy to operate thanks to its multifunction control knob.

The Ford Fusion is another midsize sedan with a smooth, cushioned ride and poised handling. The Fusion's base engine doesn't deliver much power, but its optional turbocharged engines are potent and fuel efficient. All-wheel drive is optional on the Fusion, which is a rarity in this class. The Fusion has one of the largest trunks in the class, and it also has a roomy rear seat. The cabin has a handsome, modern design and lots of soft-touch materials.

Compare the Accord, Mazda6, and Fusion in more detail »
Details: 2016 Honda Accord

The 2016 Honda Accord is available as a four-door sedan or a two-door coupe. Both body styles seat five people. The Accord sedan is available in six trims: LX (base), Sport, EX, EX-L, EX-L V6, and Touring. The coupe is available in LX-S (base), EX, EX-L, EX-L V6, and Touring trims.

The Accord sedan and coupe come standard with a 2.4-liter four-cylinder engine. The EX-L V6 and Touring models come with a 3.5-liter V6. A six-speed manual transmission is standard. Four-cylinder models are available with a continuously variable automatic transmission. V6-powered sedans come with a conventional six-speed automatic transmission, while V6-powered coupes have either the six-speed automatic or a six-speed manual. All Accords have front-wheel drive.

The Accord is refreshed for the 2016 model year. Changes include updated exterior and interior styling and new available features like Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, split-folding rear seats, heated rear seats, and front and rear parking sensors. However, the Accord hasn't been fully redesigned since the 2013 model year. As a result, this overview uses applicable research and reviews from the 2013 through 2016 model years.

Standard features include dual-zone automatic climate control, Bluetooth, a USB port, an infotainment system with an 8-inch display, a multi-angle rearview camera, and a four-speaker audio system.

Optional features include a power moonroof, push-button start, a second 7-inch infotainment touch screen with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, navigation, a seven-speaker audio system, satellite radio, HD Radio, lane keeping assist, adaptive cruise control, forward collision warning with collision mitigation braking, road departure mitigation, front and rear parking sensors, and LaneWatch, which uses a camera under the passenger-side mirror to show you vehicles in the car's blind spot.
See 2016 Honda Accord specs and trims »

    "Honda's Accord has been a class leader for as long as just about anyone remembers and even though the competition has had a number of refreshes, the... -- Kelley Blue Book
    "But for all these alternatives, we still think the Accord is best in the guise of an all-purpose American-style sedan, a car that is modest and yet... -- Automobile Magazine
    "In the balance, the Accord got better for 2016, and it remains competitive in a tough field. Throw in the current generation's - though not outstanding -... -- Cars.com

ADVERTISEMENT – CONTINUE READING BELOW
Research Prices: 2016 Honda Accord

Over 75,000 car shoppers have purchased a car through the U.S. News Best Price Program. Our pricing beats the national average 86% of the time with shoppers receiving average savings of $3,279 off MSRP across vehicles. See what others paid for the Honda Accord and get upfront pricing to make sure you don't overpay. Learn More »
MSRP: $22,205 - $34,680
Find the best local price: submit
Learn More

    Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

Next Steps: Honda Accord

    Calculate monthly payment and apply for a loan
    See what others paid for the 2016 Honda Accord
    Search used Honda Accord for sale (45,716 listings)
    See Midsize Cars rankings
    New Car Deals Lease Deals Used Car Deals

News & Advice on the 2016 Honda Accord

    2016 Honda Accord 2016 Mazda6 vs 2016 Honda Accord 2016 Hyundai Tucson Top-Ranked Cars and SUVs for 2016 7 Features That Will Spoil Your Kids Lease Deals Under $200 Lease a Top-Ranked Car for Under $200 a Month Best Cars for Playing Pokemon Go 2016 Hyundai Genesis Safest Cars for Families Celebrity Cars You Can Afford Celebrity Cars You Can Afford Drive Like a Billionaire Drive Like a Billionaire 8 So-Called Foreign Cars Built in the US Best Cars for Back to School Hyundai Sonata, Honda Accord, midsize cars Head to Head: Hyundai Sonata vs. Honda Accord Ford Fusion vs. Honda Accord Head to Head: Honda Accord vs. Toyota Camry 

Rankings: Midsize Cars

    #1 2016 Honda Accord
    #1 2016 Chevrolet Malibu
    #1 2016 Hyundai Sonata

See Full Rankings | Compare These Cars
ADVERTISEMENT
U.S. News Best Cars Awards
Best Cars Awards
Best Cars for the Money
Best Cars for Families
Best Vehicle Brands
ADVERTISEMENT
Accord Shoppers Should Also Consider...

    2016 Mazda Mazda6
    2016 Mazda Mazda6
    #5 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Ford Fusion
    2016 Ford Fusion
    #10 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Toyota Camry
    2016 Toyota Camry
    #1 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Ford Fusion Energi
    2016 Ford Fusion Energi
    #17 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Honda Civic
    2016 Honda Civic
    #1 in Compact Cars

    How We Rank New Cars How We Rank Used Cars Contact Us Site Map About U.S. News U.S. News Home 

Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy. Copyright 2016 © U.S. News Rankings & Reviews

