

    U.S. News Home
    News
    Rankings & Advice
        Education
        Health
        Money
        Travel
        Cars
        Law

U.S. News Best Cars Best Cars

    Facebook
    Twitter

Car Rankings & Advice

    Home
    New Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Research Cars
        Best Price Program
        New Car Rankings
        Car Deals this Month
        Compare Cars
        Calculate Car Payment
    Used Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Search Certified Pre-Owned
        Used Car Rankings
        Used Car Deals this Month
        Compare Used Cars
        Calculate Used Car Payment
    Car Rankings
        New Car Rankings
        Used Car Rankings
        Best Cars for the Money
        Best Cars for Families
        Best Vehicle Brands
    Financing
        Finance Center
        Car Payment Calculator
        Affordability Calculator
    News

Find a Car:
GO

    Home > Mazda > 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata > Overview 

Facebook
Twitter
G+
Mazda MX-5 Miata
#1 in Sports Cars Overall Score: 8.9 / 10

    Full Review Photos Prices & Deals Specs Dealer Inventory Repairs 

2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata View More Photos »
U.S. News Best Price Program
Don't overpay. Use the U.S. News Best Price Program to find the best local prices on the MX-5 Miata.
MSRP: $24,915 - $31,270
Find Best Price
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Overview

    2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 

The 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata ranks 1 out of 8 Sports Cars.

The fully redesigned 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata's phenomenal agility and precise steering make it one of the best-handling cars, period, according to our analysis of automotive reviews and data. Among sports cars and convertibles ... Read full review »

SEATING
2

MPG
27

  CITY
34-36

  HWY

DRIVETRAIN
RWD

HP
155
See full 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata specs »
Pros & Cons

    Top-notch handling
    Precise steering and braking
    Fantastic manual transmission
    Class-leading fuel economy

    Poor trunk and cabin storage

Notable for 2016

    Fully redesigned

Mazda MX-5 Miata Rankings and Research

The 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata ranking is based on its score within the Sports Cars category. Currently the Mazda MX-5 Miata has a score of 8.9 out of 10 which is based on our evaluation of 13 pieces of research and data elements using various sources.
Scorecard
Overall: 	8.9
Critics' Rating: 	9.8
Performance: 	9.3
Interior: 	7.8
Safety: 	N/A
Reliability: 	3_0 JD Power
Rankings

    #1 in Sports Cars
    #1 in Convertibles

Awards

    Winner: 2016 Best Sports Car for the Money

2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Pictures
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Exterior Photos
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Exterior Photos
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Exterior Photos
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Exterior Photos
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Exterior Photos See More
Exterior Photos
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Interior Photos
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Interior Photos
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Interior Photos
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Interior Photos
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Interior Photos See More
Interior Photos
2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Review

    Full Review Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

By Courtney Jones July 18, 2016

The fully redesigned 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata's phenomenal agility and precise steering make it one of the best-handling cars, period, according to our analysis of automotive reviews and data. Among sports cars and convertibles, the Miata's cornering ability is practically unmatched, and its ride comfort is outstanding. The Miata's four-cylinder engine has less horsepower than most competitors, but it still produces sprightly acceleration to complement the car's quick handling. Its six-speed manual transmission delivers fast, smooth shifts that make the driving experience even more thrilling.

The Miata's simple cabin reminds you that it's undoubtedly a driver's car. While many rivals, like the Ford Mustang, offer a variety of tech features, the Mazda's basic interior aims to keep you connected to the road rather than technology. Its controls are well-organized, and the touch screen is positioned close to the driver's sightlines to help keep focus on the road. The Miata's two seats are comfortable and supportive, but there's no back seat and very little trunk space.  

If space and practicality are high on your list of car-shopping needs, you should look elsewhere. If you want a car that gives you the most excitement for your money and has good predicted reliability, the 2016 MX-5 Miata should be near the top of your list.

The Miata's combination of positive reviews and long-term ownership costs in its class earned it our 2016 Best Sports Car for the Money award.  
Miata Performance
Stronger in Reality Than on Paper

The 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata has a 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine that produces 155 horsepower and 148 pound-feet of torque. While rivals like the Ford Mustang and Nissan 370z get nearly double the horsepower with their base engines, the Miata still produces gratifying acceleration.  The Subaru BRZ has 200 horsepower, but the Miata manages to feel faster, according to test drivers. Due to its reduced weight, the 2016 Miata also feels a bit faster than the outgoing model.

Even when you aren't flooring the pedal, the 2016 Miata is still fun to drive, which makes it a practical option for enjoyable city driving.

The Miata's six-speed manual transmission is impressive, and auto writers encourage those who don’t know how to drive a stick shift to learn. For those who won’t, there’s an available six-speed automatic. The Miata's manual transmission is incredibly refined, delivering quick, short shifts. Its clutch-action is also precise.
Superb Fuel Economy

The redesigned 2016 MX-5's fuel economy estimates are some of the best among both sports cars and convertibles. In the city the Miata gets up to 27 mpg and 34 on the highway. With the optional automatic transmission, the Miata earns the same city mpg rating and 36 on the highway. Premium fuel is recommended but not required.

When it comes to sports cars, typically the more power they have, the more gas they use. If you're considering rivals like the Ford Mustang or Subaru BRZ for their additional engine power, be aware that that they earn significantly lower fuel economy estimates. The Mustang gets 17 mpg in the city and 28 on the highway. The BRZ earns 22/city and 30/highway.
Nearly Unparalleled Handling Across Classes

Handling is where the rear-wheel drive 2016 Miata really dominates, offering some of the best driving dynamics on the market. The Miata's steering is light and razor-sharp, instantly moving the car in the direction you point it. On winding roads, the MX-5 Miata feels right at home. Its brakes are also very strong.

The Miata's ride quality is also comfortable over rough surfaces, whereas competitors like the Subaru BRZ feel harsh over broken pavement. 

For the performance enthusiast with a flexible budget, the MX-5 Miata Grand Touring is available with extra features that make it even more fun to drive and look at. It can be equipped with a high-performance package that includes Brembo brakes and BBS 17-inch alloy wheels. The package also comes with a sporty aerodynamic body kit that includes a rear bumper skirt and side sill extensions.

Read more about performance »
Interior Summary 
Comfortable Seats, Poor Visibility

The 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata seats two on standard cloth upholstery. The Grand Touring model has heated leather seats. There's a good amount of room for most adults, but you may find the car to be cramped if you're a few inches taller than 6 feet. The seats provide good support and the right amount of bolstering to keep you in place without restricting your movement. Unfortunately, the Miata's low ride height puts your sightlines level with the door handle of a midsize sedan, so visibility isn't great. 
Trunk Space for a Day, Not a Weekend

If you plan to load up the Miata for a weekend getaway, think again. Although you shouldn't expect much storage space in a two-seat roadster, most sports cars still have a larger trunk capacity than the Miata's 4.59 cubic feet. There also aren’t many storage places inside the Miata, as it has neither a glovebox nor door bins. The few available storage compartments are oddly shaped, so you may not be able to fit items like sunglasses or some electronic devices. The cup holders are awkwardly positioned, so reaching for your cup of hot coffee can be a precarious maneuver.

Among sports cars and convertibles, only the Nissan 370Z has a smaller trunk than the Miata. The Subaru BRZ and Scion FR-S both have 6.9 cubic feet of trunk space. If you want more storage space, you'll have to buy a larger car. The Chevrolet Camaro has 11.3 cubic feet in the coupe model and 10.2 in the convertible. The Ford Mustang has 11.4 cubic feet of trunk room.
Features Won't Impress the Tech Savvy

The Mazda MX-5 comes with a six-speaker stereo, Bluetooth, an auxiliary input jack, and a USB port. It's available with a Mazda Connect infotainment system, a nine-speaker Bose stereo, navigation, automatic climate control, blind spot monitoring, rear cross traffic alert, and lane departure warning.

While the Miata's cabin features seem appropriate for a car with an emphases on driving, there are some competitors that better cater to technology lovers. The Chevy Camaro, for example, comes standard with a rearview camera and an infotainment system that features Apple CarPlay and Android Auto for smartphone integration. You can also upgrade to a larger screen that features voice activated commands as well.
Logical, Simple Cabin

Most convertibles are available with a power-folding top, but the Mazda MX-5 Miata's must be manually raised and lowered. Still, the 2016 Miata's soft top has a spring-loaded mechanism that makes raising it quick and easy, and lowering is just as simple.

Climate and infotainment controls are intuitively located and easy for the driver to reach. The touch-screen placement on the dash provides the driver with the perfect at-a-glance view. The infotainment system is controlled using a dial controller that, while easy to use, is inconveniently located behind the shifter. This placement makes it easy for the driver to accidentally trigger selections when resting their arm. 

The redesigned Miata's interior is made up of both hard and soft surfaces that are generally high-quality and well-matched with the car's exterior. The cabin has a modern, straightforward layout. Some critics are not fond of the fake carbon fiber accents and would prefer simple black trim, however.

Read more about interior »
MX-5 Miata Pricing, Options, and Trims

The Mazda MX-5 Miata Sport, the base trim, starts at $24,915. Aside from an advanced keyless entry system with push-button start, few tech options are available in the Miata Sport, but you can punch up its sporty styling by adding a rear spoiler for $350. For almost $1,500, you can get a six-speed automatic transmission, but then you'd be missing out on the incredibly slick standard six-speed manual. While most convertibles have a power-folding top available, the Miata has only a manual-folding soft top.

The $28,600 MX-5 Miata Club adds a Mazda Connect infotainment system and a nine-speaker Bose stereo that includes headrest speakers. It also comes with many appearance upgrades, such as 17-inch aluminum alloy wheels, a rear spoiler, daytime LED running lights, and red accent stitching on the seats. Performance additions include a sport-tuned suspension with Bilstein shocks and a limited-slip differential, which aids traction. A $3,400 braking package includes Brembo front brakes with red calipers, a rear bumper skirt, 17-inch BBS alloy wheels, advanced keyless entry, and side sill extensions. 

The MX-5 Miata Grand Touring costs $30,065. This model includes leather-trimmed heated seats, navigation, automatic climate control, and rain-sensing windshield wipers. It also comes standard with driver-assist features like blind spot monitoring, rear cross traffic alert, lane departure warning, and an adaptive headlight system that automatically points your low beams in the direction the vehicle is traveling – particularly helpful for seeing around sharp corners.

Check out our U.S. News Best Price Program for great savings at your local Mazda dealer. You should also head over to our Mazda deals page for the latest manufacturer incentives.

See 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata specs and trims »
Other Cars to Consider

Like the Miata, the Subaru BRZ has a small, yet powerful, four-cylinder engine and a smooth six-speed manual transmission. Its agile handling and quick steering make it easy to navigate around sharp turns, and its brakes are strong. If you need a couple more seats than the Miata has, the BRZ has two in the back, though they're very cramped. The front seats are comfortable and their low position creates a good amount of headroom, and forward visibility is good. The BRZ has a couple more cubic feet of trunk space than the MX-5 Miata, and its back seats fold to make enough space for a pair of golf bags. The Subaru BRZ also has a few more standard features than the Miata, including a rearview camera and satellite radio.

The Ford Mustang is available as a coupe or convertible. Both body styles have a powerful base V6 engine that nearly doubles the MX-5 Miata's horsepower. With that engine, the Mustang's fuel economy estimates are very low for the class. However, an available turbocharged four-cylinder EcoBoost engine produces 10 additional horsepower while earning better fuel economy estimates than the V6. There are also two performance trims available that offer handling advantages and incredibly potent engines. The Ford Mustang's standard six-speed manual and optional six-speed automatic transmissions both provide smooth shifts and are well-matched with any engine. The Mustang has excellent cornering ability and a comfortable ride. It also has a significantly larger trunk than the Miata, and its interior features upscale appointments and seats for four.

Compare the MX-5 Miata, BRZ, and Mustang in more detail »
MX-5 Miata Safety and Reliability

To get any advanced safety features in the Miata, you'll have to jump straight to the top-of-the-line Grand Touring trim. The good news is that this trim comes fully equipped with all of the available safety features, which includeblind spot monitoring, rear cross traffic alert, lane departure warning, and an adaptive headlight system that adjusts the direction of your headlights based on driving conditions.

The Ford Mustang earns the top safety score among convertibles, and it's available with crash prevention technologies like rear parking sensors and forward collision warning, which the Miata doesn't have.

The 2016 Miata earns 3.5 out of five overall circles in the J.D. Power and Associates predicted reliability study, which means it's likely to have above-average reliability.

Neither the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration nor the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety has conducted crash tests on the 2016 MX-5 Miata.

Mazda backs the 2016 MX-5 Miata with a three-year/36,000-mile bumper-to-bumper warranty and a five-year/60,000-mile powertrain warranty.

Read more about safety »

Read more about reliability »
Details: 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata

The 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata is two-seat convertible. A 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine, rear-wheel drive, and six-speed manual transmission are standard. A six-speed automatic transmission is available. The Miata comes in Sport, Club, and Grand Touring trims. Mazda has completely redesigned the Miata for the 2016 model year.

Standard features include Bluetooth, a USB port, an auxiliary audio input, and a manual-folding convertible soft top. A power-folding convertible top is not available. Optional features include automatic climate control, blind spot monitoring, rear cross traffic alert, lane departure warning, and a Mazda Connect infotainment system with a Bose stereo, satellite radio, and navigation.

See 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata specs and trims »

    "If you think driving should be a fun experience that stimulates your senses without costing an arm and a leg, or if you just want the thrills... -- Kelley Blue Book
    "Shorter, lighter and more enjoyable than ever, the new Miata has got more on-road finesse than any vehicle within $10,000 of its sticker price." -- Yahoo Autos
    "To our eyes it still looks best from behind the wheel, where it remains the most fun you can have for the least amount of money." -- Car and Driver

 
ADVERTISEMENT – CONTINUE READING BELOW
Research Prices: 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata

Over 75,000 car shoppers have purchased a car through the U.S. News Best Price Program. Our pricing beats the national average 86% of the time with shoppers receiving average savings of $3,279 off MSRP across vehicles. See what others paid for the Mazda MX-5 Miata and get upfront pricing to make sure you don't overpay. Learn More »
MSRP: $24,915 - $31,270
Find the best local price: submit
Learn More

    Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

Next Steps: Mazda MX-5 Miata

    Calculate monthly payment and apply for a loan
    See what others paid for the 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata
    Search used Mazda MX-5 Miata for sale (3,613 listings)
    See Sports Cars rankings
    New Car Deals Lease Deals Used Car Deals

News & Advice on the 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata

    2015 Best vehicle Brand Awards 2016 Best Vehicle Brand Awards Best Deals on Best Car Brands Best Deals on the Best Vehicle Brands Surprising sports cars 7 Undercover Sports Cars 2016 Volvo XC90 North American Car and Truck of the Year Finalists: Best Finance and Lease Offers 2016 Models 9 Most Significant 2016 Models (and Whether They're Right for You) 2016 Ford Mustang Most Improved Cars of the Year 2016 Best Car for the Money Awards 2016 Best Cars for the Money The Best Deals on the 2016 Best Cars for the Money 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Sporty Cars with Great Gas Mileage NYIAS Best Debuts at the 2016 New York International Auto Show 6 Cars for Spring Break 2016 Dodge Charger Best Sports Car Deals for August 2016 Hyundai Genesis Coupe Fastest Cars Under $30K 2016 Jeep Grand Cherokee Best Cars for Road Trips The Best Memorial Day Sports Car Deals The Best Memorial Day Sports Car Deals Automotive Simplicity is Simply Tough to Find The Simple Life: Top 12 Cars for Technophobes 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Summer's Best Convertibles 2016 Ford Mustang Best Convertibles Under $30,000 Cars with Smartphone Apps (and What They Can Do) Ford GT The New Cars Getting the Most Buzz Fiat 124 Spider, Mazda Miata Head to Head: 2017 Fiat 124 Spyder vs. 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Sports Cars Race Cars You Can Drive Every Day Convertibles for Every Budget 

Rankings: Sports Cars

    #1 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata
    #2 2016 Chevrolet Camaro
    #3 2017 Ford Mustang

See Full Rankings | Compare These Cars
ADVERTISEMENT
U.S. News Best Cars Awards
Best Cars Awards
Best Cars for the Money
Best Cars for Families
Best Vehicle Brands
ADVERTISEMENT
MX-5 Miata Shoppers Should Also Consider...

    2016 Scion FR-S
    2016 Scion FR-S
    #4 in Sports Cars
    2016 Chevrolet Camaro
    2016 Chevrolet Camaro
    #2 in Sports Cars
    2017 Ford Mustang
    2017 Ford Mustang
    #3 in Sports Cars
    2016 Dodge Challenger
    2016 Dodge Challenger
    #4 in Sports Cars
    2016 Subaru BRZ
    2016 Subaru BRZ
    #4 in Sports Cars

    How We Rank New Cars How We Rank Used Cars Contact Us Site Map About U.S. News U.S. News Home 

Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy. Copyright 2016 © U.S. News Rankings & Reviews


