

    U.S. News Home
    News
    Rankings & Advice
        Education
        Health
        Money
        Travel
        Cars
        Law

U.S. News Best Cars Best Cars

    Facebook
    Twitter

Car Rankings & Advice

    Home
    New Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Research Cars
        Best Price Program
        New Car Rankings
        Car Deals this Month
        Compare Cars
        Calculate Car Payment
    Used Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Search Certified Pre-Owned
        Used Car Rankings
        Used Car Deals this Month
        Compare Used Cars
        Calculate Used Car Payment
    Car Rankings
        New Car Rankings
        Used Car Rankings
        Best Cars for the Money
        Best Cars for Families
        Best Vehicle Brands
    Financing
        Finance Center
        Car Payment Calculator
        Affordability Calculator
    News

Find a Car:
GO

    Home > Chevrolet > 2016 Chevrolet Camaro > Overview 

Facebook
Twitter
G+
Chevrolet Camaro
#2 in Sports Cars Overall Score: 8.8 / 10

    Full Review Photos Prices & Deals Specs Dealer Inventory Repairs 

2016 Chevrolet Camaro View More Photos » General Motors
U.S. News Best Price Program
Don't overpay. Use the U.S. News Best Price Program to find the best local prices on the Camaro.
MSRP: $25,700 - $48,300
Find Best Price
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Overview

    2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 

The 2016 Chevrolet Camaro ranks 2 out of 8 Sports Cars.

The redesigned 2016 Chevrolet Camaro is the runner-up in our sports car rankings. Our analysis of professional reviews and data shows that critics like the Camaro's powerful engine lineup and nimble handling. Drivers may ... Read full review »

SEATING
4

MPG
16-22

  CITY
25-31

  HWY

DRIVETRAIN
RWD

HP
275-455
See full 2016 Chevrolet Camaro specs »
Pros & Cons

    Powerful engine lineup
    Agile handling
    Above-average predicted reliability

    Poor outward visibility
    Tiny trunk and back seat

Notable for 2016

    Fully redesigned

Chevrolet Camaro Rankings and Research

The 2016 Chevrolet Camaro ranking is based on its score within the Sports Cars category. Currently the Chevrolet Camaro has a score of 8.8 out of 10 which is based on our evaluation of 16 pieces of research and data elements using various sources.
Scorecard
Overall: 	8.8
Critics' Rating: 	9.5
Performance: 	8.8
Interior: 	7.6
Safety: 	9.2
Reliability: 	3_0 JD Power
Rankings

    #2 in Sports Cars
    #2 in Convertibles

2016 Chevrolet Camaro Pictures
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Exterior Photos
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Exterior Photos
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Exterior Photos
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Exterior Photos
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Exterior Photos See More
Exterior Photos
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Interior Photos
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Interior Photos
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Interior Photos
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Interior Photos
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Interior Photos See More
Interior Photos
2016 Chevrolet Camaro Review

    Full Review Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

By Cody Trotter June 17, 2016

The redesigned 2016 Chevrolet Camaro is the runner-up in our sports car rankings. Our analysis of professional reviews and data shows that critics like the Camaro's powerful engine lineup and nimble handling. Drivers may wish for better visibility, however, and the trunk is smaller than many rivals'.

Though it isn't the cheapest sports car, with a starting price of $25,700, the Camaro is less expensive than many of its competitors. The highest Camaro trim has a starting price in the low $40,000s, but be aware that there are many options packages that can add several thousand dollars to the price tag. Most notably, opting for a convertible will cost you $7,000 more than the corresponding coupe.

Chevrolet backs the Camaro with a three-year warranty. The Camaro also has an above-average predicted reliability rating for the class.
Camaro Performance
Power for Days

The 2016 Camaro comes standard with a new-for-2016 2.0-liter turbocharged four-cylinder engine that puts out 275 horsepower. It's smooth and has ample power for most driving situations. The four-cylinder is also easier on your gas bill than a typical sports car, earning an EPA-estimated 21 mpg in the city and 30 on the highway.

But you're not buying a sports car just to have "ample power for most driving situations," are you? Fortunately, you can upgrade to a 3.6-liter V6 that makes 335 horsepower. The V6 has more punch than the turbo-four, and it definitely feels fast. It does get worse fuel economy, but its rating of 18 mpg in the city and 27 on the highway is pretty typical for the class.

Still, some people don't feel like they're driving a muscle car unless stomping the gas pedal induces heart palpitations. Enter the Camaro SS and its 6.2-liter V8 engine, which it shares with the Corvette. This bad boy puts out 455 horsepower and 455 pound-feet of torque. Whether you're at a stoplight or on the highway, once you hit the gas, the only cars you'll see will be in the rearview mirror. It earns an estimated 16 mpg in the city and 25 on the highway, which is better than some V8-powered rivals like the Dodge Challenger.

A six-speed manual transmission is standard in the Camaro, and an eight-speed automatic is available. Both transmissions deliver precise shifts. The automatic comes with paddle shifters that give you greater control over the power output.
Crisp Handling

In addition to its array of powerful engines, the Camaro delivers a cushioned ride. The steering is sharp, which gives you a better sense of control over the vehicle.

The Camaro has a high curb weight – nearly two tons. That weight prevents it from being a true corner carver like the Mazda MX-5 Miata, but the Camaro still attacks corners with minimal body lean.

Read more about performance »
Camaro Interior
Fresh Interior, but Poor Visibility

The redesigned Camaro's interior has a modern look and feel that puts a 21st century spin on the classic muscle car. There are plenty of quality materials, which add to the cabin's ambience.

The front seats are comfortable, and the available Recaro sport seats have extra bolstering that give you even more support. But while you may be comfortable in the driver's seat, don't expect a great view of the road. The Camaro's outward visibility is fairly poor, and you may want to spring for optional features like blind spot monitoring and front and rear parking sensors to help detect any objects you might not see. Fortunately, a rearview camera is standard.

As with most sports cars, the rear seats in the Camaro are mostly for show. They're incredibly small, and almost anyone will be uncomfortable sitting back there. The trunk is undersized as well, and it has a small opening, making it harder to load your cargo.
Latest Tech Features

The Camaro has plenty of standard features that you'll love. Satellite radio gives you plenty of listening options, and Bluetooth and two USB ports make sure you have ways to connect and charge your smartphone.

As part of the MyLink infotainment system, the Camaro also comes standard with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, which let you transform your vehicle into an extension of your smartphone, right down to the touch screen's menus, which look the same as they do on your device.

The Camaro is available with an upgraded version of the MyLink system that features an 8-inch touch screen (instead of the standard 7-inch) that can also be controlled with voice commands. Other available features include navigation and a nine-speaker Boston Acoustics audio system.
Sun's Out, Guns Out

At their core, sports cars are about enjoying your driving experience, and what better way to do that than to feel fresh air whipping through your hair? The Camaro has you covered, as every trim is available as a convertible.

Convertible models come with a soft top that is fully automatic, allowing you to put it up or down with the touch of a button. You can even do this while on the move – the top can raise and lower as long as you are going under 30 mph. The top can also be raised or lowered remotely by using the key fob.

Read more about interior »
Camaro Pricing, Options, and Trims

The Camaro's 1LT (base) trim starts at $25,700, which is considerably less than competitors like the Nissan 370Z, but higher than the base price of the Ford Mustang. The highest trim is the 2SS. It carries a starting price of $41,300, which is about what you'd pay for a high-end Mustang GT or Dodge Challenger R/T.

In many cases, you have to step up in trim to get extra features in your Camaro, but there are also option packages and individual upgrades. Regardless of which trim you choose, you can upgrade from a coupe to a convertible for an extra $7,000.

On the 1LT and 2LT trims, it'll cost you about $1,500 to upgrade from the four-cylinder engine to the V6. If you want the V8 engine, you'll have to step up to at least the 1SS trim, which starts at $36,300. No matter which trim or engine you choose, it'll also cost you about $1,500 to get the available eight-speed automatic transmission.

There are multiple brake upgrade packages for up to $3,200, and the SS trims offer an adjustable suspension for about $1,700. There are also several optional styling upgrades on every trim that cost anywhere from a few hundred dollars to around $2,000.

See 2016 Chevrolet Camaro specs and trims »
Camaro Safety and Reliability

The 2016 Camaro scores well in crash tests performed by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, earning a rating of Good (the highest rating) in four out of five categories and a rating of Acceptable in the roof strength category.

The only standard driver assistance feature in the Camaro is a rearview camera, but that still gives the Camaro a leg up on most other sports cars, which generally have no standard driver assistance features. Rear parking sensors and blind spot monitoring are available on the Camaro, but class rivals like the Ford Mustang offer more advanced safety features such as forward collision warning.

The Camaro has an above-average predicted reliability rating, and Chevrolet covers the 2016 Camaro with a three-year/36,000-mile bumper-to-bumper warranty and a five-year/60,000-mile powertrain warranty.

Read more about safety »
Other Cars to Consider

Like the Camaro, the Ford Mustang is available as a coupe or a convertible. No matter which engine you choose, the Mustang delivers strong acceleration. The available turbocharged four-cylinder engine delivers better fuel economy than most muscle cars. The Mustang handles curvy roads with ease, and it offers a performance package designed to provide even sportier handling. Inside, the Mustang features a blend of classic and modern styling with quality materials and comfortable front seats. The Mustang also has a lower starting price than the Camaro.

The Dodge Challenger is the modern essence of an American muscle car. Its base V6 puts out over 300 horsepower, and there are a range of V8 engines, culminating in the supercharged V8 powering the Challenger SRT Hellcat, which produces 707 horsepower. The Challenger has strong brakes and handles well considering its size and weight. The Challenger seats five and – unlike the Camaro – actually has room for adults in the back seat. The Challenger also has one of the largest trunks in the class, and its infotainment system is responsive and easy to use.

Compare the Camaro, Mustang, and Challenger in more detail »
Details: 2016 Chevrolet Camaro

The 2016 Chevrolet Camaro seats four and comes as either a coupe or convertible. The base Camaro has a 2.0-liter turbocharged four-cylinder engine mated to a six-speed manual transmission. A 3.6-liter V6 engine, a 6.2-liter V8 engine, and an eight-speed automatic transmission are available. The Camaro comes in four trims: 1LT, 2LT, 1SS, and 2SS. The Camaro is fully redesigned for 2016.

The 2016 Camaro's standard features include a rearview camera, Bluetooth, satellite radio, two USB ports, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, and a 7-inch touch screen.

Available features include Chevy's voice-activated MyLink infotainment system with an 8-inch touch screen, a nine-speaker Boston Acoustics audio system, navigation, rear parking sensors, rear cross traffic alert, blind spot monitoring, a head-up display, and a power sunroof.

See 2016 Chevrolet Camaro specs and trims »

    "It's leaner, meaner, and true to its heritage as Chevy's emphatic response to the Ford Mustang. Yes, this new car looks about the same as the old... -- Autoblog
    "The 2016 Camaro may look very familiar, but having finally banished its David Byrne suit once and for all, this bowtied pony car is hardly the ‘same... -- CNET
    "The new Camaro offers the kind of handling and braking that was once the exclusive purview of higher-end European sports coupes and sedans, all with distinctly American... -- Kelley Blue Book

ADVERTISEMENT – CONTINUE READING BELOW
Research Prices: 2016 Chevrolet Camaro

Over 75,000 car shoppers have purchased a car through the U.S. News Best Price Program. Our pricing beats the national average 86% of the time with shoppers receiving average savings of $3,279 off MSRP across vehicles. See what others paid for the Chevrolet Camaro and get upfront pricing to make sure you don't overpay. Learn More »
MSRP: $25,700 - $48,300
Find the best local price: submit
Learn More

    Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

Next Steps: Chevrolet Camaro

    Calculate monthly payment and apply for a loan
    See what others paid for the 2016 Chevrolet Camaro
    Search used Chevrolet Camaro for sale (20,655 listings)
    See Sports Cars rankings
    New Car Deals Lease Deals Used Car Deals

News & Advice on the 2016 Chevrolet Camaro

    10 Cars That Are All New for 2016 Best Muscle Cars Best Muscle Cars Best American Debuts NYIAS Best American Debuts at the 2016 New York International Auto Show 2016 Dodge Charger Best Sports Car Deals for August 2016 Subaru WRX Fastest Cars for the Money Fast Cars Fast Cars To Meet Your Need For Speed Chevy Camaro vs. Ford Mustang Chevy Camaro vs. Ford Mustang: What's the Better Muscle Car to Buy? 2016 Chevrolet Camaro Best Muscle Car Deals for August The Quickest Cars Built in the U.S.A. Muscle Made in America: 12 Fast Cars Built in the U.S.A. 2016 Porsche Cayenne Drive Like a Major Leaguer 2016 Ford Mustang Iconic Movie Cars You Can Afford Drive Like an NBA Superstar The Best Memorial Day Sports Car Deals The Best Memorial Day Sports Car Deals 2016 Dodge Charger Best Memorial Day Muscle Car Deals 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata Summer's Best Convertibles 2016 Ford Mustang Eight Reincarnated Cars American Muscle Cars American Muscle Cars 11 NFL Stars and Their Cars Fast Cars for 4 (or More) Best Chevrolets to Buy Convertibles for Every Budget 

Rankings: Sports Cars

    #1 2016 Mazda MX-5 Miata
    #2 2016 Chevrolet Camaro
    #3 2017 Ford Mustang

See Full Rankings | Compare These Cars
ADVERTISEMENT
U.S. News Best Cars Awards
Best Cars Awards
Best Cars for the Money
Best Cars for Families
Best Vehicle Brands
ADVERTISEMENT
Camaro Shoppers Should Also Consider...

    2016 Scion FR-S
    2016 Scion FR-S
    #4 in Sports Cars
    2017 Ford Mustang
    2017 Ford Mustang
    #3 in Sports Cars
    2016 Chevrolet Corvette
    2016 Chevrolet Corvette
    #4 in Luxury Sports Cars
    2016 Dodge Challenger
    2016 Dodge Challenger
    #4 in Sports Cars
    2016 Dodge Charger
    2016 Dodge Charger
    #9 in Large Cars

    How We Rank New Cars How We Rank Used Cars Contact Us Site Map About U.S. News U.S. News Home 

Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy. Copyright 2016 © U.S. News Rankings & Reviews

