

    U.S. News Home
    News
    Rankings & Advice
        Education
        Health
        Money
        Travel
        Cars
        Law

U.S. News Best Cars Best Cars

    Facebook
    Twitter

Car Rankings & Advice

    Home
    New Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Research Cars
        Best Price Program
        New Car Rankings
        Car Deals this Month
        Compare Cars
        Calculate Car Payment
    Used Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Search Certified Pre-Owned
        Used Car Rankings
        Used Car Deals this Month
        Compare Used Cars
        Calculate Used Car Payment
    Car Rankings
        New Car Rankings
        Used Car Rankings
        Best Cars for the Money
        Best Cars for Families
        Best Vehicle Brands
    Financing
        Finance Center
        Car Payment Calculator
        Affordability Calculator
    News

Find a Car:
GO

    Home > Ford > 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid > Overview 

Facebook
Twitter
G+
Ford Fusion Hybrid
#6 in Midsize Cars Overall Score: 8.6 / 10

    Full Review Photos Prices & Deals Specs Dealer Inventory Repairs 

2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid View More Photos » Ford Motor Company
U.S. News Best Price Program
Don't overpay. Use the U.S. News Best Price Program to find the best local prices on the Fusion Hybrid.
MSRP: $25,675 - $31,430
Find Best Price
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Overview

    2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 

The 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid ranks 6 out of 18 Midsize Cars.

Our review of the research and data that drive our rankings shows that the 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid sets itself apart not only from rival hybrid and electric cars, but from midsize cars as well ... Read full review »

SEATING
5

MPG
44

  CITY
41

  HWY

DRIVETRAIN
FWD

HP
188
See full 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid specs »
Pros & Cons

    Modern interior
    Comfortable seats
    Smooth transitions from electric to gas power
    Surprisingly nimble

    Infotainment system responds slowly
    Touchy brakes

Notable for 2016

    Upgraded base audio system

Ford Fusion Hybrid Rankings and Research

The 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid ranking is based on its score within the Midsize Cars category. Currently the Ford Fusion Hybrid has a score of 8.6 out of 10 which is based on our evaluation of 64 pieces of research and data elements using various sources.
Scorecard
Overall: 	8.6
Critics' Rating: 	9.3
Performance: 	8.3
Interior: 	7.8
Safety: 	9.2
Reliability: 	3_0 JD Power
Rankings

    #6 in Midsize Cars
    #1 in Hybrid and Electric Cars

Awards

    Winner: 2016 Best Hybrid Car for the Money
    Finalist: 2016 Best Midsize Car for the Money

2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Pictures
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Exterior Photos
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Exterior Photos
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Exterior Photos
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Exterior Photos
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Exterior Photos See More
Exterior Photos
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Interior Photos
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Interior Photos
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Interior Photos
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Interior Photos
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Interior Photos See More
Interior Photos
2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid Review

    Full Review Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

By Cody Trotter September 1, 2016

Our review of the research and data that drive our rankings shows that the 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid sets itself apart not only from rival hybrid and electric cars, but from midsize cars as well. While most hybrids have a comfort-oriented performance, the Fusion Hybrid's athleticism brings fun to your daily commute. It also offers seamless transitions between gas and electric power, so if you're used to driving gas-only cars, you won't notice much difference with this powertrain.

Inside, the Fusion Hybrid has comfortable seats, an attractive modern styling, and high-quality materials. Together, these give the Fusion Hybrid an upscale feel. The price is comfortable too. It’s more expensive than nonhybrid midsize cars (hybrid powertrains naturally cost more), but it’s the least expensive hybrid in this class. And it gets better fuel economy than most of its rivals.

Compared with cars in the hybrid and electric class, it’s not the least expensive car, but it stacks up well for its size and its list of standard features. In fact, because it has the best combination of positive reviews and long-term ownership costs in this class, the Ford Fusion Hybrid is our 2016 Best Hybrid Car for the Money.
Fusion Hybrid Performance
Seamless Power Transitions

The 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid features a four-cylinder engine and an electric motor that combined make 188 horsepower. The Fusion Hybrid has decent power for highway driving, but its powertrain is most satisfying and responsive in the city. The Fusion Hybrid's transitions between electric and gasoline power are virtually unnoticeable, which sometimes isn't the case with hybrid powertrains.

If you want a hybrid midsize car with a bit more acceleration for highway driving, check out the Kia Optima Hybrid or Hyundai Sonata Hybrid, which both have good acceleration from a stop and enough power for highway passing maneuvers. Still, most midsize hybrids have moderate powertrain strength, so if you want a sedan with lots of power, you should take a look at gas-only midsize sedans.

The Fusion Hybrid comes with an automatic, continuously variable transmission, and a six-speed automatic is available on SE models.
Agile Handling and Sensitive Braking

The Ford Fusion Hybrid handles surprisingly well for a midsize sedan. Around corners, the Fusion Hybrid has precise, quick steering, and there's little body roll. While rivals like the Camry Hybrid deliver better ride comfort, the Fusion Hybrid is a bit more fun to drive.

The Fusion Hybrid comes with regenerative brakes. Most hybrid vehicles have them, and they often garner complaints for being too sensitive. The Fusion Hybrid's brakes can be a bit touchy, requiring you to apply a light touch to avoid stopping too hard. The Toyota Camry Hybrid and Hyundai Sonata Hybrid receive similar complaints for their regenerative brakes, but the Kia Optima Hybrid's brakes feel close to traditional brakes.
Fuel Economy

According to the EPA, the Ford Fusion Hybrid returns 44 mpg in the city and 41 mpg on the highway. That’s better than any nonhybrid midsize car will provide, and it’s also pretty good among hybrid models in the class. Still, the Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid surpasses the fuel economy estimates of every car in the class with an estimated 47 mpg in the city and 46 on the highway.

Read more about performance »
Fusion Hybrid Interior
Driver-Oriented Cabin

The Ford Fusion Hybrid has seating for five. The driver will have no problem getting comfortable, as the cabin is driver-focused. The driver’s seat is easily adjustable and provides good visibility out the front. However, rear visibility is not as great, due to the small sloping back window. An average-height adult will have good space in the back seat, but those taller than 6 feet may feel cramped. Cloth upholstery is standard, and leather upholstery, heated and cooled front seats, and power-adjustable front seats are available.

As for the cabin, the Fusion Hybrid’s looks good. Its modern, minimal styling includes sweeping lines and curved shapes. The Fusion Hybrid's cabin materials are top quality, and most surfaces are soft and nicely textured. The Fusion Hybrid's cabin earns praise for being incredibly quiet when the car is at speed.
Controls Are a Mixed Bag

You will most likely want to upgrade to the SYNC with MyFord Touch infotainment system, which has a polished look and is user-friendly, thanks to its redundant physical buttons and voice controls that allow you to access car and smartphone functions. It comes with an 8-inch touch screen and an extensive list of voice commands that allow you to control many car and smartphone functions. Still, MyFord Touch can take some time to master and is sometimes slow to respond to inputs. Other dashboard buttons, including climate controls, are simple to operate.
Cargo

At 12 cubic feet, the Fusion Hybrid's trunk size is average for a midsize sedan. The Fusion Hybrid also has a good amount of space for a hybrid sedan, which is notable since they typically have less space than gas-only models due to their battery pack. Still, you can get more space with the Toyota Camry Hybrid or Kia Optima Hybrid, which have 13.1 and 13.3 cubic feet of trunk space, respectively. The Fusion Hybrid has a split-folding back seat, and plenty of interior storage spaces.

Read more about interior »
Fusion Hybrid Pricing, Specs, and Trims

The Ford Fusion Hybrid S is the base model, and it starts at about $25,200. It comes standard with a rearview camera and Ford SYNC, a voice-activated infotainment system with Bluetooth and smartphone integration. An optional appearance package for $900 adds a leather-wrapped steering wheel, a rear spoiler, halogen fog lamps, and 18-inch stainless wheels. Also standard is Ford MyKey, which allows you to set speed and radio volume limits when others are using the car.

The next trim level is the Fusion Hybrid SE for nearly $26,000. The SE comes with a keyless entry keypad, power front seats, and LED lighting. It's available with a $2,350 package that includes leather upholstery, heated front seats, and remote start.

Moving up to the Fusion Hybrid Titanium, for about $30,500 you get a 12-speaker Sony stereo, heated front seats, and rear parking sensors. The Titanium trim also comes with a SYNC 3 system, which includes all the features of the base SYNC system, as well as navigation, Apple CarPlay, and Android Auto, which give you touch-screen access to several smartphone apps and features, including maps, music, and contacts. For $1,600, you can add a driver assist package that includes automatic high beams, blind spot detection with cross traffic alert, lane keep assist, a heated steering wheel, and rain-sensing windshield wipers.

See 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid specs and trims »
Ford Fusion Hybrid Safety and Reliability

The Ford Fusion Hybrid comes equipped with a rearview camera and is available with plenty of state-of-the-art driver assistance features to help ensure safe driving.

If you have teen drivers, Ford's MyKey is a great tool to manage driving restrictions. The feature allows you to set speed and radio volume limits to help keep your teen safe and focused on the road. Rear parking sensors are available to help with parking maneuvers. The Fusion Hybrid can also be equipped with lane keep assist, pre-collision automatic braking with pedestrian detection, and blind spot detection with cross traffic alert.

The Fusion Hybrid's safety scores are below average for the midsize class. In the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety's crash tests, the Fusion Hybrid earned a top rating of Good in the moderate overlap front, side impact, rear crash protection, and roof strength crash tests and a rating of Acceptable in the small overlap front test. In the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's four crash tests, the Ford Fusion Hybrid earned five of five stars in the overall and frontal crash tests, and four stars in the side and rollover crash tests.

The 2016 Fusion Hybrid's predicted reliability scores are slightly below average for the class. The Fusion Hybrid has had two safety recalls from the NHTSA: one for the front seat belts and one for the fuel system.

Ford covers the 2016 Fusion Hybrid with a three-year/36,000-mile bumper-to-bumper warranty and a five-year/60,000-mile powertrain warranty. Certain hybrid powertrain components are covered by an eight-year/100,000-mile warranty.

Read more about safety »
Other Cars to Consider

The Toyota Camry Hybrid's smooth, quiet ride makes it a great option for daily comfort. It also handles fairly well around corners. The Camry Hybrid's interior is made with quality materials. Its front seats are supportive, and its rear seats have plenty of room, even for taller adults. The Camry Hybrid has more trunk space than the Fusion Hybrid, and its infotainment system is very user-friendly.

The Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid has better fuel economy estimates than the Fusion Hybrid. It gets 3 more miles per gallon in the city and 5 more on the highway. Like the Fusion Hybrid, the Malibu Hybrid transitions smoothly between gas and electric power. It has well-weighted steering and its ride is serene. The Malibu Hybrid's interior controls are easy to use, with a vibrant touch screen that’s easy to reach, and its low dashboard gives you an excellent view of the road ahead.

Compare the Fusion Hybrid, Camry Hybrid, and Malibu Hybrid in more detail »
Details: 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid

The 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid seats five and features a 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine and an electric motor that combine to produce 188 horsepower. A continuously variable automatic transmission and front-wheel drive are standard. A six-speed automatic transmission is available on the SE model. The Fusion Hybrid comes in three trims: S, SE, and Titanium. The nonhybrid Fusion and the Ford Fusion Energi plug-in hybrid are reviewed separately. The Fusion Hybrid was last redesigned for the 2013 model year and sees no major changes this year. As a result, this overview uses applicable research and reviews from the 2013 through 2016 model years.

Standard features in the 2016 Fusion Hybrid include dual-zone automatic climate control, a six-speaker audio system, a rearview camera, emergency brake assist, and the voice-activated SYNC infotainment system with Bluetooth and smartphone app integration.

Available features include satellite radio, HD Radio, push-button start, a power moonroof, a 12-speaker Sony audio system, adaptive cruise control, active park assist, rear parking sensors, blind spot monitoring, rear cross traffic alert, lane departure warning, lane keep assist, and forward collision warning with brake support. An upgraded SYNC system is also available with MyFord Touch, an 8-inch touch screen, two 4.2-inch display screens, two USB ports, navigation, and Wi-Fi capability.

See 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid specs and trims »

    "With its impressive refinement, high fuel economy, well-rounded performance and high-tech features, the 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid is a top choice if you're shopping for a midsize sedan." -- Edmunds
    "Best of all, any new Ford Fusion is wrapped in European styling that's sophisticated, nicely proportioned, and still looks fresh even after several years of production. Inside... -- Kelley Blue Book
    "[I]t looks pretty much like any other Fusion from the outside, so if you're looking for a hybrid that shouts its environmental virtue to the world, get a Prius." -- Car and Driver (2013)

ADVERTISEMENT – CONTINUE READING BELOW
Research Prices: 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid

Over 75,000 car shoppers have purchased a car through the U.S. News Best Price Program. Our pricing beats the national average 86% of the time with shoppers receiving average savings of $3,279 off MSRP across vehicles. See what others paid for the Ford Fusion Hybrid and get upfront pricing to make sure you don't overpay. Learn More »
MSRP: $25,675 - $31,430
Find the best local price: submit
Learn More

    Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

Next Steps: Ford Fusion Hybrid

    Calculate monthly payment and apply for a loan
    See what others paid for the 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid
    Search used Ford Fusion Hybrid for sale (None listings)
    See Midsize Cars rankings
    New Car Deals Lease Deals Used Car Deals

News & Advice on the 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid

    2016 Best Car for the Money Awards 2016 Best Cars for the Money The Best Deals on the 2016 Best Cars for the Money More Cars Manufactured in Mexico More Cars Made in Mexico 2016 Ford Mustang 8 Best Ford Cars and SUVs 2016 Jeep Grand Cherokee Best Cars for Road Trips Best Cars for Teens Best Cars for Teens Best Commuter Cars Best Cars for Commuting Best Commuter Cars 

Rankings: Midsize Cars

    #1 2016 Chevrolet Malibu
    #1 2016 Honda Accord
    #6 2016 Ford Fusion Hybrid

See Full Rankings | Compare These Cars
ADVERTISEMENT
U.S. News Best Cars Awards
Best Cars Awards
Best Cars for the Money
Best Cars for Families
Best Vehicle Brands
ADVERTISEMENT
Fusion Hybrid Shoppers Should Also Consider...

    2016 Mazda Mazda6
    2016 Mazda Mazda6
    #5 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Ford Fusion
    2016 Ford Fusion
    #10 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Toyota Camry
    2016 Toyota Camry
    #1 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Ford Fusion Energi
    2016 Ford Fusion Energi
    #17 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Toyota Prius
    2016 Toyota Prius
    #9 in Compact Cars

    How We Rank New Cars How We Rank Used Cars Contact Us Site Map About U.S. News U.S. News Home 

Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy. Copyright 2016 © U.S. News Rankings & Reviews

