

    U.S. News Home
    News
    Rankings & Advice
        Education
        Health
        Money
        Travel
        Cars
        Law

U.S. News Best Cars Best Cars

    Facebook
    Twitter

Car Rankings & Advice

    Home
    New Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Research Cars
        Best Price Program
        New Car Rankings
        Car Deals this Month
        Compare Cars
        Calculate Car Payment
    Used Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Search Certified Pre-Owned
        Used Car Rankings
        Used Car Deals this Month
        Compare Used Cars
        Calculate Used Car Payment
    Car Rankings
        New Car Rankings
        Used Car Rankings
        Best Cars for the Money
        Best Cars for Families
        Best Vehicle Brands
    Financing
        Finance Center
        Car Payment Calculator
        Affordability Calculator
    News

Find a Car:
GO

    Home > Toyota > 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid > Overview 

Facebook
Twitter
G+
Toyota Camry Hybrid
#6 in Midsize Cars Overall Score: 8.6 / 10

    Full Review Photos Prices & Deals Specs Dealer Inventory Repairs 

2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid View More Photos » Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.
U.S. News Best Price Program
Don't overpay. Use the U.S. News Best Price Program to find the best local prices on the Camry Hybrid.
MSRP: $26,790 - $30,140
Find Best Price
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Overview

    2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 

The 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid ranks 6 out of 18 Midsize Cars.

Aside from its powertrain, the 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid isn't much different from its gas-only sibling. The biggest difference? Better fuel economy.

The Camry Hybrid gets outstanding gas mileage for a midsize car. Among ... Read full review »

SEATING
5

MPG
40-43

  CITY
38-39

  HWY

DRIVETRAIN
FWD

HP
200
See full 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid specs »
Pros & Cons

    Pleasant, smooth ride
    Straightforward infotainment system
    Roomy interior

    Sensitive brakes

Notable for 2016

    No major changes

Toyota Camry Hybrid Rankings and Research

The 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid ranking is based on its score within the Midsize Cars category. Currently the Toyota Camry Hybrid has a score of 8.6 out of 10 which is based on our evaluation of 37 pieces of research and data elements using various sources.
Scorecard
Overall: 	8.6
Critics' Rating: 	8.7
Performance: 	7.9
Interior: 	7.8
Safety: 	9.3
Reliability: 	4_5 JD Power
Rankings

    #6 in Midsize Cars
    #1 in Hybrid and Electric Cars

Awards

    Finalist: 2016 Best Hybrid Car for the Money

2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Pictures
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Exterior Photos
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Exterior Photos
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Exterior Photos
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Exterior Photos
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Exterior Photos See More
Exterior Photos
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Interior Photos
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Interior Photos
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Interior Photos
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Interior Photos
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Interior Photos See More
Interior Photos
2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid Review

    Full Review Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

By Courtney Jones July 29, 2016

Aside from its powertrain, the 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid isn't much different from its gas-only sibling. The biggest difference? Better fuel economy.

The Camry Hybrid gets outstanding gas mileage for a midsize car. Among midsize hybrids, fuel economy is good, but not exceptional. Its estimates are on a par with competitors like the Ford Fusion Hybrid and Hyundai Sonata Hybrid. For the best fuel economy in the class, look at the Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid.

The Camry Hybrid's front seats are comfortable, and there's good rear-seat legroom for tall adults. While its interior materials have improved over the years, they still aren’t as nice as those found in competitors such as the Hyundai Sonata Hybrid. The standard touch-screen audio system is user-friendly and instantly responds to your touch. With large secondary physical buttons and knobs for audio and climate controls, adjusting settings at a glance is simple. Trunk space is slightly below average for a midsize car and slightly above average for a midsize hybrid, according to our analysis of the data and reviews that drive our rankings.

From a stop or on the highway, the Camry Hybrid accelerates quickly, which is notable because midsize sedans – both hybrid and nonhybrid – typically feel underpowered on the highway. Its transitions between electric and gas power are seamless, unless the car idles for a prolonged period. Some critics complain that the brakes are too sensitive. The Camry Hybrid's safety score is slightly below average for a midsize car, but its predicted reliability rating is better than most. 
Camry Hybrid Performance
Quick Acceleration From a Stop

Powering the 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid are a 2.5-liter four-cylinder engine and an electric motor that together produce 200 horsepower. This powertrain gets the Camry Hybrid moving quickly from a stop, and its highway acceleration is brisk. Transitions between gas and electric power are typically seamless. However, the car sometimes shakes a bit when the gas engine engages after an extended stop. A continuously variable automatic transmission is standard.
Fuel Estimates Are Good for a Midsize Car, but Average for a Hybrid

According to the EPA, the Camry Hybrid earns 43 mpg in the city and 39 mpg on the highway. Those are outstanding fuel estimates for a midsize car but just average for a midsize hybrid. The Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid leads the class with 47 mpg in the city and 46 on the highway. The Hyundai Sonata Hybrid and Camry Hybrid's fuel economy estimates are nearly identical, while the Ford Fusion Hybrid gets 1 additional mile-per-gallon in the city.

The Camry Hybrid’s ride is exceptionally quiet and comfortable, test drivers say. Most find that it has composed handling through turns, especially if you’re driving the SE trim. Some auto writers complain, however, that the Camry Hybrid’s brakes are overly sensitive.

Read more about performance »
Camry Hybrid Interior
Subpar Cabin Materials

Though the 2016 Camry Hybrid's interior materials are better than those found in previous models, the Camry's surfaces are down-market compared with rival hybrids. This is especially true of its cheap-looking soft-touch surfaces and fake wood trim. 

The Hyundai Sonata Hybrid’s interior, by comparison, is made with upscale materials that are put together well, making it one of the nicest cabins in the class.
Ample Back-Seat Legroom

The Camry Hybrid's seats are comfortable for all occupants, and those in the back have plenty of legroom. While both the Ford Fusion Hybrid and Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid have good rear-seat legroom, headroom is compromised by their rooflines. The Hyundai Sonata Hybrid, however, has more back-seat space than most midsize hybrids.

Rear-facing child car seats are easy to install in the rear seats, but if you have a toddler who uses a front-facing car seat, the fixed headrests can make it difficult to install. The Camry Hybrid's LATCH system includes lower anchors on rear outboard seats.

The Camry Hybrid seats five on cloth upholstery. A power-adjustable driver's seat is standard, and a power-adjustable passenger seat, leather upholstery, and heated front seats are available.
User-Friendly Audio System and Dashboard Controls

The 2016 Camry Hybrid comes standard with an Entune audio system that has a 6.1-inch touch screen. The system is quick, and its menus are easy to navigate. The Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid has a slightly larger touch screen at 7 inches, and it has large icons and bright graphics that are easy to see in bright sunlight.

The Camry Hybrid's dashboard has large secondary physical buttons, like a volume knob, so you can make adjustments without having to look at the touch screen. The climate controls are also straightforward.
Good Hybrid Trunk Space, but Only by a Small Margin

The 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid has 13.1 cubic feet of trunk space, which is a good amount of space for a midsize car, including hybrid models. In fact, hybrid trunk space doesn’t get much bigger, as the Kia Optima Hybrid leads the class with just 13.3 cubic feet.

Read more about interior »
Camry Hybrid Pricing, Options, and Trims

The Camry Hybrid LE base model starts at $26,790. It comes with a rearview camera, proximity key with push-button start, dual-zone automatic climate control, Bluetooth, a USB port, and Toyota’s Entune audio system with a 6.1-inch touch screen. For $775, you can add an Entune navigation app.

The Camry Hybrid SE costs $27,995 and has unique styling and a sport-tuned suspension. It comes with all the features of the base model, as well as sport seats and a leather-trimmed steering wheel. For $2,290, you get a package that includes wireless smartphone charging, a power moonroof, and an upgraded Entune system with premium audio and integrated navigation.

The top-of-the-line Camry Hybrid XLE is priced at $30,140 and comes with leather-trimmed upholstery, daytime LED running lights, and 17-inch alloy wheels. For $3,165, you can add a package that includes a power moonroof, blind spot monitoring, smartphone wireless charging, and an upgraded Entune system with a premium JBL stereo and integrated navigation.

Check out our U.S. News Best Price Program for great savings at your local Toyota dealer. You should also head over to our Toyota deals page for the latest manufacturer incentives.

See 2016 Camry Hybrid specs and trims »
Camry Hybrid Safety and Reliability

The 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid's safety score is slightly below average for a midsize car, but it’s on a par with most midsize hybrid's scores. The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety conducted five crash tests on the Camry Hybrid: moderate overlap front, small overlap front, side impact, rear crash protection, and roof strength. It earned the top rating of Good in all five tests. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration has a five-star crash test rating scale. In the front and rollover crash tests, the Camry Hybrid received four stars, and it got five stars in the side crash test. Together these scores earn the Camry Hybrid a five-star overall crash test rating.

Rivals such as the Nissan Altima received nearly perfect scores from both agencies, with the exception of its four-star rollover NHTSA crash test. The Subaru Legacy received perfect scores across all crash tests. Both the Altima and Legacy earned the IIHS' Top Safety Pick+ award for their optional front crash prevention systems.

When it comes to predicted reliability, J.D. Power and Associates determined that the Camry Hybrid is “better than most” other cars, but not quite “among the best.” The Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid earned the same rating.

The Camry Hybrid comes standard with a rearview camera. Available crash prevention technology includes adaptive cruise control, which keeps your speed within a preset range and maintains that distance between you and traffic ahead. Optional lane departure warning alerts you when you drift out of your lane, and available blind spot monitoring lets you know when a car is approaching your blind spot. Forward collision warning, which signals you to brake when you're at risk of hitting the car in front of you, is also available. Most midsize hybrids are available with the same safety features.

The 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid is covered by a three-year/36,000-mile limited warranty, a five-year/60,000-mile powertrain warranty, and an eight-year/100,000-mile warranty for hybrid-related components.

Read more about safety »

Read more about reliability »
Other Cars to Consider

The Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid's four-cylinder engine and two electric motors transition between gas and electric power seamlessly. While most hybrid models' regenerative brakes can be touchy and have inconsistent pedal feel, the Malibu Hybrid's brakes are smooth and consistent. The Malibu Hybrid's ride is gentle over most surfaces. Additionally, its fuel economy estimates are better than those of every midsize hybrid. The Malibu Hybrid's cabin is handsomely styled and the low dashboard creates an expansive view ahead. It's available with a few features the Camry Hybrid doesn't have, such as semi-automatic parking assist, low-speed automatic front braking, and front and rear parking sensors. The Malibu Hybrid is also available with a 4G LTE Wi-Fi hot spot, so you can connect to the internet on the go.

The Ford Fusion Hybrid stands out among midsize hybrids because of its agile handling, quick steering, and limited body roll. It's a great option if you prefer an engaging driving experience over ride comfort. The Fusion Hybrid’s base engine has good power for city driving, and its electric and gas power transmissions are smooth and virtually unnoticeable. The Fusion Hybrid also earns some of the best fuel economy estimates among both hybrid and gas-only midsize cars. The Fusion Hybrid's dashboard is canted toward the driver for easy access. The sleek infotainment system is easy to use, and there are redundant physical buttons so you don't always have to look at the touch screen. Cabin materials are top quality, and its sweeping lines and curves make for an attractive, modern environment.

Compare the Camry Hybrid, Malibu Hybrid, and Fusion Hybrid in more detail »
Details: 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid

The 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid seats five, has front-wheel drive, and is available in LE, SE, and XLE trims. Power comes from a 2.5-liter four-cylinder engine and an electric motor paired with a continuously variable automatic transmission. The Camry Hybrid is essentially unchanged from its 2015 refresh and has not been fully redesigned since the 2012 model year. As a result, this overview uses applicable research and reviews from the 2012 through 2016 model years.

The 2016 Camry Hybrid comes with a rearview camera, proximity key, dual-zone automatic climate control, Bluetooth, a USB port, and Toyota’s Entune audio system with a 6.1-inch touch screen. Available features include a sunroof, an upgraded Entune system with navigation and smartphone app integration, a JBL audio system, adaptive cruise control, lane departure warning, forward collision warning, and blind spot monitoring with rear cross traffic alert.

See 2016 Camry Hybrid specs and trims »

    "The Camry's longtime hold on the hybrid-midsize market is shrinking though, and new challengers, such as the Ford Fusion Hybrid, Honda Accord Hybrid and Hyundai Sonata Hybrid,... -- AutoTrader
    "It looks better, it's more comfortable, and it rides better. It's just a shame Toyota didn't also take the opportunity to make some small but meaningful improvements... -- Motor Trend (2015)
    "While the refreshed 2015 Toyota Camry Hybrid is an excellent stand-alone choice, it is far from the only game in town. The Ford Fusion Hybrid, Honda Accord... -- Autoblog (2015)

ADVERTISEMENT – CONTINUE READING BELOW
Research Prices: 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid

Over 75,000 car shoppers have purchased a car through the U.S. News Best Price Program. Our pricing beats the national average 86% of the time with shoppers receiving average savings of $3,279 off MSRP across vehicles. See what others paid for the Toyota Camry Hybrid and get upfront pricing to make sure you don't overpay. Learn More »
MSRP: $26,790 - $30,140
Find the best local price: submit
Learn More

    Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

Next Steps: Toyota Camry Hybrid

    Calculate monthly payment and apply for a loan
    See what others paid for the 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid
    Search used Toyota Camry Hybrid for sale (48,422 listings)
    See Midsize Cars rankings
    New Car Deals Lease Deals Used Car Deals

News & Advice on the 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid

    Drive Like a Presidential Candidate 

Rankings: Midsize Cars

    #1 2016 Chevrolet Malibu
    #1 2016 Honda Accord
    #6 2016 Toyota Camry Hybrid

See Full Rankings | Compare These Cars
ADVERTISEMENT
U.S. News Best Cars Awards
Best Cars Awards
Best Cars for the Money
Best Cars for Families
Best Vehicle Brands
ADVERTISEMENT
Camry Hybrid Shoppers Should Also Consider...

    2016 Mazda Mazda6
    2016 Mazda Mazda6
    #5 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Ford Fusion
    2016 Ford Fusion
    #10 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Toyota Camry
    2016 Toyota Camry
    #1 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Ford Fusion Energi
    2016 Ford Fusion Energi
    #17 in Midsize Cars
    2016 Toyota Prius
    2016 Toyota Prius
    #9 in Compact Cars

    How We Rank New Cars How We Rank Used Cars Contact Us Site Map About U.S. News U.S. News Home 

Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy. Copyright 2016 © U.S. News Rankings & Reviews

