

    U.S. News Home
    News
    Rankings & Advice
        Education
        Health
        Money
        Travel
        Cars
        Law

U.S. News Best Cars Best Cars

    Facebook
    Twitter

Car Rankings & Advice

    Home
    New Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Research Cars
        Best Price Program
        New Car Rankings
        Car Deals this Month
        Compare Cars
        Calculate Car Payment
    Used Cars
        Search Dealer Inventory
        Search Certified Pre-Owned
        Used Car Rankings
        Used Car Deals this Month
        Compare Used Cars
        Calculate Used Car Payment
    Car Rankings
        New Car Rankings
        Used Car Rankings
        Best Cars for the Money
        Best Cars for Families
        Best Vehicle Brands
    Financing
        Finance Center
        Car Payment Calculator
        Affordability Calculator
    News

Find a Car:
GO

    Home > Tesla > 2016 Tesla Model S > Overview 

Facebook
Twitter
G+
Tesla Model S
#1 in Luxury Large Cars Overall Score: 9.4 / 10

    Full Review Photos Prices & Deals Specs Dealer Inventory 

2016 Tesla Model S View More Photos » Tesla Motors
MSRP:
$70,000 - $109,500
Free Dealer Pricing:Get Model S price quotes from dealers in your area.
2016 Tesla Model S Overview

    2016 2015 2014 2013 

The 2016 Tesla Model S ranks 1 out of 10 Luxury Large Cars.

The 2016 Tesla Model S is a revolutionary luxury sedan, with phenomenal acceleration, excellent handling, and state-of-the-art available driver assistance and safety technology features. And it doesn’t burn a drop of gasoline.

The Model ... Read full review »

SEATING
5

MPG
N/A

  CITY
N/A

  HWY

DRIVETRAIN
AWD, RWD

HP
315-532
See full 2016 Tesla Model S specs »
Pros & Cons

    Stunning acceleration
    Comfortable, composed ride
    Large, intuitive touch screen

    Questionable reliability
    Rivals have more comfortable seats

Notable for 2016

    New rear-wheel drive 60 base trim
    New exterior design starting in mid-2016

Tesla Model S Rankings and Research

The 2016 Tesla Model S ranking is based on its score within the Luxury Large Cars category. Currently the Tesla Model S has a score of 9.4 out of 10 which is based on our evaluation of 28 pieces of research and data elements using various sources.
Scorecard
Overall: 	9.4
Critics' Rating: 	9.6
Performance: 	9.2
Interior: 	8.1
Safety: 	N/A
Reliability: 	N/A
Rankings

    #1 in Luxury Large Cars
    #1 in Luxury Hybrid and Electric Cars

2016 Tesla Model S Pictures
2016 Tesla Model S Exterior Photos
2016 Tesla Model S Exterior Photos
2016 Tesla Model S Exterior Photos
2016 Tesla Model S Exterior Photos
2016 Tesla Model S Exterior Photos See More
Exterior Photos
2016 Tesla Model S Interior Photos
2016 Tesla Model S Interior Photos
2016 Tesla Model S Interior Photos
2016 Tesla Model S Interior Photos
2016 Tesla Model S Interior Photos See More
Interior Photos
2016 Tesla Model S Review

    Full Review Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

By John Vincent July 22, 2016

The 2016 Tesla Model S is a revolutionary luxury sedan, with phenomenal acceleration, excellent handling, and state-of-the-art available driver assistance and safety technology features. And it doesn’t burn a drop of gasoline.

The Model S is propelled by one or two electric motors, depending on the model, and is the quickest four-door sedan available today. It can scoot from zero to 60 mph in just 2.8 seconds in its most powerful “Ludicrous Mode.” According to the reviews and data that drive our rankings, the Model S is hard to beat in the luxury large car category.

Depending on the model, the EPA-estimated range of the Model S stretches from 210 to 294 miles on a single charge. Tesla also operates a network of Supercharger stations where Model S buyers are able to recharge their cars for free. The Model S is also one of the first cars available with the capability to receive free over-the-air updates to its software without the need to visit a service center.

The Model S, which can seat up to seven, also pushes the boundaries of advanced driver assistance technology. A Tesla Model S equipped with autopilot software can guide itself with little user intervention necessary for steering, braking, or acceleration. However, it’s not fully autonomous driving, and the system has limitations that require the driver to pay attention to the road ahead. The cars learn their environments over time and share their knowledge with other Teslas.

Tesla doesn’t have model years like traditional manufacturers that, for example, might have 2017 models built in 2016. For Tesla, the model year is the year that the car was produced. They refreshed the look of the car and introduced a new version in mid-2016, so the model year includes both the previous and new exteriors. It can be confusing, but we’ll be discussing the newest models in this review since the early 2016 design is no longer available.

The Tesla Model S starts at $66,000 for the recently introduced Model S 60 rear-wheel drive model with a range of 210 miles on a single charge. Prices climb as you add range, all-wheel drive, performance, and technology options. Add all of the options to the top-of-the line P90D and the price will top $140,000. Until Tesla sells 200,000 cars, most buyers will qualify for a $7,500 federal tax credit when they purchase a Model S. 
Model S Performance
Supercar Acceleration

In its base Model S 60 trim, the large sedan is certainly no slug, with the ability to launch from zero to 60 mph in 5.5 seconds. But if you open your wallet wider, you can chop that time nearly in half. A high-performance $109,500 Model S P90D all-wheel drive with Ludicrous Speed enabled (a $10,000 option) can rocket from zero to 60 mph in just 2.8 seconds.

Rear-wheel drive Model S sedans are propelled by one electric motor located in the rear of the car. All-wheel drive models add a second motor to drive the front wheels. The Model S 60 with rear-wheel drive carries a 60 kilowatt-hour battery pack that produces 315 horsepower, 325 pound-feet of torque, and an EPA estimated 210 miles of range. Model S 90D trims have a 90 kWh battery that’s good for 417 horsepower and 294 miles of range. Of course, like any electric car, if you’re using the full complement of horsepower, you’re not going to get maximum range. The lithium-ion battery pack is located low in the sedan, underneath the cabin floor.

It’s the torque that really gives the Tesla its lively feel. Electric motors, unlike gasoline engines, create their maximum amount of torque at very low speeds, creating the urgent launch feeling that drivers love. That’s how the top-performing 532-horsepower Model S P90D creates its stunning zero-to-60 time – it has a whopping 713 pound-feet of torque that comes on as soon as you step on the accelerator. By comparison, the 2017 Mercedes SL65 AMG can produce 738 pound-feet of torque and 621 horsepower, but it doesn’t hit maximum torque until the engine is spinning at 2,300 rpm. It takes the Benz 3.9 seconds to get from zero to 60, compared to the Tesla’s 2.8 seconds. However, in a race from 50 to 150 mph, the Mercedes would win handily, as the Tesla runs out of torque at higher speeds, just as the Mercedes hits its stride around 50 mph – cranking out maximum torque and horsepower.

 

That’s why you’ll hear Teslas referred to as incredibly quick, not incredibly fast.

There isn’t a transmission in the traditional sense, as the electric motors have a wide power band that makes multiple gear ratios unnecessary. In essence, the electric motors can accelerate the car at nearly any motor speed, unlike a gasoline engine. The only disadvantage of the single-speed setup is a limited top speed, as the electric motor torque is higher at low speeds than it is at high speeds. Of course in the land of Tesla superlatives, that top speed ranges from an ample 130 to 155 mph depending on the trim level. The Porsche Panamera S E-Hybrid can hit 167 mph and the Panamera Turbo S tops out at 192 mph.
Electric Efficiency

The range of the Model S varies from an estimated 210 miles to 294 miles (using EPA guidelines), depending on the battery pack and drivetrain chosen. Surprisingly, all-wheel drive versions of the Model S 60 and Model S 75 have slightly higher ranges than their rear-wheel drive counterparts.

The range will vary with the options you choose and driving conditions. Very low or very high temperatures will reduce range, and if you equip your Model S with a large wheel and tire package, it will reduce the car’s range. Tesla recommends their 19-inch wheels with all-season tires for maximum range.

The latest 2016 models have not yet been rated for mpg-e (explained here), but there are mpg-e ratings for the early 2016 models, which are similar to the new ones. The Model S 90D all-wheel drive leads the lineup with 101 mpg-e in the city and 107 on the highway, beating its rear-wheel drive equivalent by a wide margin. The Model S 90 (rear-wheel drive) earns estimates of 88 mpg-e city/90 mpg-e highway.
Charging Options

Teslas have more charging options than any other electric vehicle available. Headlining the options is the Tesla Supercharger network. Tesla Model S and Model X owners have access to the fast chargers for free. You can charge a nearly depleted 90D in just over an hour on one of the superchargers.

Most electric car charging is done at home, and Tesla offers several charging solutions ranging from 120-volt plugs that can provide about 3 miles of range per hour of charging to wall-mounted connectors that can add as many as 58 miles to your range each hour you’re connected. Like most electric vehicles, the Model S’ charger is actually on board the car, and the wall-mount units that are typically referred to as chargers are just ways to bring AC power to the car.

A charging cable with adapters for J1772, 120- and 240-volt outlets is included with the car. J1772 is the standard Level 2 charging plug used by most electric cars on the market. Tesla, however, uses a proprietary plug for charging, and that’s why an adapter is needed to use non-Tesla charging stations.

Model S owners can also take advantage of public charging facilities using the J1772 adapter or an available $450 CHAdeMO DC fast-charge adapter.
Ultra-Quiet Ride

The Model S has a smooth, comfortable ride, befitting a car in the large luxury class. But it’s also agile, owing to the low center of gravity created by the battery pack, which is mounted under the floor.

Unlike in a gasoline-powered car, acceleration in the Model S is accompanied with a whoosh, rather than a roar.

With the available air suspension, the car will lower itself to improve aerodynamics. You can raise the car manually if, for example, you have a steep driveway. The Model S will learn where you have to raise the car and will do it automatically in the future.

Read more about performance »
Model S Interior
The Future is Here

Many of the most basic things about a car are just different when you’re talking about the Tesla Model S. The door handles are flush with the side of the car until you approach, then they pop out so you can open the doors. When you’re done driving there’s no push-button to turn the car off – you simply get out, walk away, and the car shuts down and locks.

A 17-inch vertically oriented touch screen is the centerpiece of the Tesla Model S’ luxurious interior. Many of the functions controlled by buttons and switches in a traditional sedan are ditched for touch-screen controls. Systems from climate control to air suspension, and even the operation of the sunroof, are managed on the screen.

The included navigation system uses Google Maps and covers the entire screen, giving drivers a map of where in a city they are, rather than just a detailed turn-by-turn view that spans a few blocks. Like a smartphone, you can swipe to move around the map and quickly zoom in and out. The screen also supports the car’s rearview camera and hands-free telephone and infotainment functions. Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are not supported.

Most vehicle systems can be updated by over-the-air updates sent from Tesla.

Though the interior material choices are high-quality and attractive, they aren’t quite up to Mercedes, Lexus, or BMW standards. Leatherette upholstery is standard, with leather surfaces available. The headliner is Alcantara and interior details feature polished wood or carbon fiber-look finishes. Unlike competitors at the upper end of the Model S’ range, Tesla does not offer massaging seats.
Seating for Up to Seven

Five adults can fit in the standard Model S seating setup, though the back seat can be a bit tight on headroom for tall passengers. The 12-way power-adjustable front seats are heated, and heated rear seats are available. The front seats aren’t as comfortable and supportive as some in the class, but there’s plenty of legroom in both the front and back.

For $3,000 you can have Tesla equip your Model S with seating for seven. The small rear-facing seats are only suitable for kids, but they feature five-point seatbelts for safety. If you need to install child seats, the outboard rear seats are fit with a full set of LATCH connectors. The center seat can be fitted with a child seat by using the seat belt and an upper tether point.

The interior is very quiet, largely due to the lack of an internal combustion engine. You’ll only hear some motor whine and a bit of roar from the tires. The only downside to the ultraquiet cabin is the fact that every squeak and rattle will be instantly apparent.
A Trunk and a Frunk

The placement of the Model S’ battery pack in the floor and the lack of an engine up front open up a tremendous amount of cargo space. Though it’s called a sedan, the Model S is actually a large hatchback, with 31.6 cubic feet behind the 60/40-split rear seats. That’s more than double the Audi A8’s 14.2 cubic feet of trunk space or the Porsche Panamera E-Hybrid’s 11.8 cubic feet.

Part of the Tesla’s cargo space is under the front hood, where a traditional car would have its engine. Tesla calls it the frunk, and it’s much smaller in all-wheel drive models than in rear-wheel drive cars because the AWD’s front motor takes up much of the space.

A common complaint about the Model S is the lack of storage and convenience compartments inside the car. Unless you opt for the rear jump seat option, which has a set of cup holders for the people in the way back, the Model S only has two cup holders.

Read more about interior »
Model S Pricing, Options, and Trims

The trim levels on the Tesla Model S are defined by the capacity of the battery pack. Higher numbers mean increased performance and range. Model S 60, 70, and 75s feature 60, 70, and 75 kWh battery capacity, respectively. They’re available in either rear- or all-wheel drive. The 90D and the high-performance P90D trims feature 90 kWh battery packs. The P90D features exclusive red brake calipers.

Model S 60 rear-wheel drive sedans start at $66,000. Add $5,000 to get the all-wheel drive 60D model. The Model S 70 rear- and all-wheel drives are priced at $71,500 and $75,000, respectively. Opt for the new Model S 75, and you’ll pay a base price of $74,500 for rear-wheel drive or $79,500 for all-wheel drive. The 90D trim starts at $89,500, and the top-of-the-line P90D’s base price is $109,500.

Optional equipment for the Model S includes the $2,500 Autopilot Convenience Features package that enables automatic steering and summon (the ability to call your car to you from a short distance away); traffic-aware cruise control, which maintains the space between the Model S and the cars around it; automatic lane centering, which uses pavement markings to keep you evenly between the lines; automatic lane changing, which is activated when you turn the signal stalk; parking space detection and self-parallel parking; and automatic headlights. The package can be enabled after delivery for $3,000.

The Premium Upgrades package ($3,000) includes an aggressive air filtration system that can scrub the cabin and incoming air of exhaust particles, allergens, and bacteria; dynamic LED turning lights to illuminate your path around corners; LED fog lights; leather and interior accents for cars with leather seating surfaces; Alcantara upper dash accents; enhanced interior lighting and lighted door handles; a power liftgate; and a quick connection phone dock.

Smart air suspension can be added for $2,500. It raises and lowers the car for maximum efficiency or for navigating in snowy conditions. It can also remember where you have manually changed the height – to enter a steep driveway, for example – and automatically adjust the height the next time you come to that location.

For $1,000 there’s the Subzero Weather package that includes heated rear seats, a heated steering wheel, wiper blade defrosters, and heated windshield washer nozzles. An all-glass panoramic roof is a $1,500 option. Cars with the panoramic roof can be equipped with the Ultra High Fidelity Sound package ($2,500) that includes an upgraded 12-speaker audio system and satellite radio.

If you want faster charging at home, and you have a 100-amp circuit to charge from, you can enable the Model S’ High Amperage Charger upgrade for $1,500 at purchase or $1,900 at a later time.

Model S P90D models have a couple more options in the catalog, including a carbon fiber rear spoiler and the Ludicrous Speed upgrade. For $10,000 your Model S can be equipped for maximum performance with a zero-to-60 mph time of 2.8 seconds compared to the regular P90D’s 3.1 seconds.

See 2016 Tesla Model S specs and trims »
Model S Safety and Reliability

The 2016 Tesla Model S has not been evaluated by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, but the nearly identical rear-wheel drive models from last year achieved five-star overall crash test ratings from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. NHTSA has only tested the all-wheel drive Model S sedans that carry an electric motor up front (that may or may not affect their ratings) in two of their five crash tests. They have been tested for side crash and rollover and earned a perfect five stars in both scenarios.

Even the least expensive Model S comes with an impressive array of safety equipment in addition to the expected array of airbags and a rearview camera. A front and side collision avoidance system is included, as is blind spot warning, lane departure warning, and parking sensors. Adding the $2,500 Autopilot Convenience Features package brings automatic steering, traffic aware cruise control, automatic lane centering and changing, automatic parallel parking, and automatic high-beam headlights. All of the hardware for the Autopilot package is included in the stock Model S and can be activated after purchase (at a slightly higher price). LED turning lights are included in the Premium Upgrade package.

Though not commonly thought of as a vehicle safety system, a Bioweapon Defense Mode is available for the Model S. The system pressurizes the cabin with air drawn through its sophisticated cabin air filtration system.

J.D. Power and Associates does not yet have predicted reliability data for the Tesla Model S. Consumer Reports, however, removed its “Recommended” designation from the car in October 2015, based on a worse-than-average overall problem rate. In their surveys of Model S owners, they identified problems in many areas, including complaints about the drive system that have increased as the cars have aged. They do note that many of the problems identified are covered by the vehicle’s warranty.

The 2016 Tesla Model S comes with a four-year/50,000-mile warranty and an eight-year/unlimited-mile battery and powertrain warranty.

Read more about safety »

Read more about reliability »
Other Cars to Consider

Looking for a large luxury sedan, but not quite ready to make the leap to full electric? There are a couple of other cars you should consider that give you economy-car-like efficiency with excellent performance and a luxurious cabin.

The Mercedes-Benz S-Class is available as a plug-in hybrid: the S550e trim. It’s not as quick as the Tesla Model S, but it still cranks out 436 horsepower and achieves an EPA-estimated 58 mpg-e combined fuel economy rating. Base price for the S550e is $95,650, and there are features available in the Mercedes that you can’t get in the Tesla, including massaging seats, night vision, and attention assist, which monitors how tired you are and prompts you to take a break when needed.

You should also check out the 416-horsepower Porsche Panamera S E-Hybrid. It’s also not as quick as the top Tesla models, but its top speed of 167 mph is higher. It’s rated by the EPA to achieve 51 mpg-e combined and has a starting price of $93,200. It offers a more engaged driving experience than the Model S, with an eight-speed TipTronic transmission that you can shift manually. If you’re willing to give up the green credentials for maximum performance, you can drop your zero-to-60 time to 3.6 seconds with the $180,300 Panamera Turbo S.

Compare the Model S, S-Class, and Panamera in more detail »
Details: 2016 Tesla Model S

The 2016 Tesla Model S seats five (or seven with optional rear-facing jump seats) and comes standard with an electric motor, a single-speed transmission, and rear-wheel drive. An all-wheel drive system (models with "D" designation) with a second electric motor is optional. The Model S comes in six trims: 60, 60D, 75, 75D, 90D, and high-performance P90D. The Model S debuted for the 2012 model year and has received mainly cosmetic changes for 2016. As a result, this overview uses applicable research and reviews from the 2012 through 2016 model years.

Standard features in the 2016 Model S include a 17-inch touch screen, dual-zone automatic climate control, Bluetooth, dual USB ports, HD Radio, navigation, front and rear parking sensors, front- and rearview cameras, lane departure warning, and blind spot monitoring. Options include a 12-speaker premium audio system, a panoramic sunroof, satellite radio, adaptive cruise control, automatic parallel park assist, and advanced lane keep assist with automatic steering.

See 2016 Model S specs and trims »

    “Tesla's Model S for 2016 is a game changer, offering everything a traditional combustion-engine luxury sedan does without the harmful emissions and unpredictable fuel bills. With a... -- Kelley Blue Book
    "The car starts at $70,000, although this one was fully loaded - with perks such as a $35,000 90-kilowatt dual-motor upgrade - and cost about $142,200. …... -- The Washington Post (2015)
    "For now, we are satisfied in the knowledge that this is the quickest production four-door ever conceived." -- Car and Driver (2015)

as the Tesla runs out of torque at higher speeds, just as the Mercedes hits its stride around 50 mph – cranking out maximum torque and horsepower

 
ADVERTISEMENT – CONTINUE READING BELOW
Learn More

    Photos Prices Specs Performance Interior Safety Reliability 

Next Steps: Tesla Model S

    Calculate monthly payment and apply for a loan
    Search used Tesla Model S for sale (208 listings)
    See Luxury Large Cars rankings
    New Car Deals Lease Deals Used Car Deals

News & Advice on the 2016 Tesla Model S

    Best Muscle Cars Best Muscle Cars Tesla Model S Tesla, Electric Cars, and You Fast Cars Fast Cars To Meet Your Need For Speed Cars That Cost $100 Grand Cars That Cost $100 Grand Tesla Model 3 vs. Chevy Bolt Tesla Model 3 vs. Chevy Bolt: What's the Better Electric Car to Buy? The Quickest Cars Built in the U.S.A. Muscle Made in America: 12 Fast Cars Built in the U.S.A. 2016 Tesla Model S Best 4-Door Sports Cars muscle cars 6 Secret Muscle Cars 2016 Chevrolet Corvette Best Cars for Baby Boomers 2016 Nissan GT-R Supercars That Are Easy to Live With Tesla Model S 12 Things You May Not Have Known About the Tesla Model S 2016 Tesla Model S, Best Luxury Cars Best Luxury Cars Tesla Battery Unveiled Making the Model S Quicker Than Ever Fast Cars for 4 (or More) Tesla Model S Top Six States to Own a Tesla Why Tesla's Autopilot Isn't Really Autopilot Chevrolet SS The Most Fun to Drive Cars: 8 Sedans That Make Commuting a Blast Best Cars for Labor Day Road Trips BMW i8, electric and hybrid cars High-Performance Hybrids and EVs Cars with Smartphone Apps (and What They Can Do) 

Rankings: Luxury Large Cars

    #1 2016 Tesla Model S
    #2 2016 Audi A7
    #3 2016 Cadillac CT6

See Full Rankings | Compare These Cars
ADVERTISEMENT
U.S. News Best Cars Awards
Best Cars Awards
Best Cars for the Money
Best Cars for Families
Best Vehicle Brands
ADVERTISEMENT
Model S Shoppers Should Also Consider...

    2016 Lincoln MKS
    2016 Lincoln MKS
    #10 in Luxury Large Cars
    2016 Audi A7
    2016 Audi A7
    #2 in Luxury Large Cars
    2016 Cadillac CT6
    2016 Cadillac CT6
    #3 in Luxury Large Cars
    2016 BMW 6-Series
    2016 BMW 6-Series
    #4 in Luxury Large Cars
    2016 Mercedes-Benz CLS-Class
    2016 Mercedes-Benz CLS-Class
    #4 in Luxury Large Cars

    How We Rank New Cars How We Rank Used Cars Contact Us Site Map About U.S. News U.S. News Home 

Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy. Copyright 2016 © U.S. News Rankings & Reviews

