

    New Cars
            Acura
            Fiat
            Lexus
            Porsche
            Alfa Romeo
            Ford
            Lincoln
            Ram
            Aston Martin
            Genesis
            Lotus
            Rolls-Royce
            Audi
            GMC
            Maserati
            Scion
            Bentley
            Honda
            Mazda
            Smart
            BMW
            Hyundai
            McLaren
            Spyker
            Bugatti
            Infiniti
            Mercedes-AMG
            Subaru
            Buick
            Jaguar
            Mercedes-Benz
            Tesla
            Cadillac
            Jeep
            Mercedes-Maybach
            Toyota
            Chevrolet
            Kia
            Mini
            Volkswagen
            Chrysler
            Koenigsegg
            Mitsubishi
            Volvo
            Dodge
            Lamborghini
            Nissan
            Ferrari
            Land Rover
            Pagani
        View All
    Reviews
        First Drives
        Instrumented Tests
        Comparison Tests
        Long-Term Tests
        Archived Reviews
        View All Reviews
    News
        2016 Beijing Auto Show
        Blog
        Future Cars
        Auto Shows
        View All News
    Video
        Car and Driver Video
        YouTube
    Features
        2016 Editors' Choice
        2016 10Best Cars
        Lightning Lap 2015
        60th Anniversary
        Columns
        Gearbox
        Tech Dept.
        View All Features
    Buyer's Guide
        2016 Editors' Choice
        2015 Editors' Choice
        Shopping Advice
        Get a Free Quote
        Used Car Listings
        CPO Buyer's Guide
        CPO Car Listings
        View Buyer's Guide
    Subscribe
        Magazine
        Digital Edition
        Give a Gift
        Newsletter
        Car and Driver Store
            Sign in
            Register
            Backfires

    2017 Ford Fusion Sport
    2017 Jeep Wrangler / Wrangler Unlimited
    2016 Lincoln MKX 2.7T FWD
    2017 Acura TLX
    The Best Cars, Trucks, SUVs, and More for 2016
    A Guide to Certified Pre-Owned Programs

    Home
    / Reviews
    / Ford
    / Fusion
    / 2017 Ford Fusion Sport - First Drive Review

VIEW 24 PHOTOS
2017 Ford Fusion Sport
2017 Ford Fusion Sport
The 325-hp family sedan is here.

    Aug 2016 By DON SHERMAN 

    SHARE
    TWEET

First Drive Review

How does any automaker claw its way up the tortuous mid-size family-sedan staircase? Besides getting the basics right—like packaging and technology—power, performance, and driving poise are three P’s that most tickle our fancy. Realizing this, Ford aspires to move its Fusion up from the bottom half of the pack with a new Sport package for the otherwise mildly revised 2017 model. Having now driven the Sport, we can say that those who own our favorite mid-sizers—the Mazda 6, Chevrolet Malibu, and Honda Accord—had better watch their mirrors for a black mesh grille closing fast in the passing lane.
Compara Honda Civic al Corolla
Ve Como el Honda Civic Compara con Toyota Corolla. Aprende Más. Continue at www.es.Civic.Honda.com

Dropping in a 2.7-liter twin-turbo V-6 borrowed from the F-150 and the Edge Sport between the Fusion’s front fenders vaults this sedan to 325 horsepower and a husky 380 lb-ft of torque, making it the first modern mid-size family sedan to snap the 300-hp leash. That’s an excellent start—but the Fusion development team kept their heads down to deliver a well-rounded package to support the newfound horsepower. The six-speed automatic is a heavier-duty unit controlled by paddles attached to the leather-wrapped steering wheel. Behind that, there’s computer-controlled all-wheel drive consisting of the usual front-drive transaxle plus a longitudinal driveshaft and a rear differential engaged on demand by a clutch. The crowning touch is what Ford calls continuously controlled damping. Borrowed from the Lincoln camp, these computer-controlled dampers give the Fusion the legs it needs to run competitively in the sport league.
VIEW 24 PHOTOS

The surge when you indulge the throttle would tax the front tires so much that they’d dissolve in smoke and torque steer if not for the rear rubber pitching in during maximum-demand situations. You can feel this happen and see the torque delivery shift rearward via a handy live pictogram in the instrument cluster. The only downside is that you must relinquish the too-small tachometer gauge to watch the captivating all-wheel-drive plot. We’re predicting a 5.3-second zero-to-60-mph run, which would be 0.5 second quicker than our tests of the current-generation Honda Accord V-6 sedan, which packs 278 horsepower.

Smack in the middle of the console-mounted rotary shifter is a magic S button that must be punched for any driving exercise more strenuous than crawling through commuter traffic. When this mode is engaged, half a dozen good things happen. Throttle response sharpens. The soundtrack is artificially enhanced with deeper bass-sax solos. Steering effort rises and the adaptive dampers tighten their control of wheel and body motion. A more aggressive shift program for the transmission is selected and the paddle shifters are given additional authority, though not enough to avoid automatic upshifts at 6000 rpm. The powertrain software does, at least, hold gears through corners and match revs during braking for a tight turn.

The car we drove rode on gray-painted aluminum wheels wrapped with 235/40R-19 Goodyear all-season tires. Their grip was adequate, but we’re looking forward to trying the optional summer tires. The electrically assisted steering is nicely calibrated for effort but could be a touch quicker to deal better with the inevitable understeer at the adhesion limit. Ford engineers agreed with us that there’s too little feedback from the road to charm serious driving enthusiasts and promised to dial in more feel as soon as they find some means of accomplishing that noble aim.

What impressed us most is how shrewdly the dampers behave to support flat-out driving without wounding the ride a whit. Amazingly, tread-impact noise was noticeably lower with the S mode engaged during our attack of some of our favorite test roads near our Ann Arbor headquarters. While Tokico supplies this hardware, Ford engineers are proud of the software calibrations developed in-house just for this application.

Aside from better steering feel, our wish list includes higher-capability brakes with less pedal travel, some feedback, and more fade resistance. Add to that stiffer seat bolsters so there’s something beyond the perforated suede trim to hold you in place when your mood turns sporty.
VIEW 24 PHOTOS

The interior trim is available only in charcoal gray. The Sport décor provides something for everybody—leather, suede, contrast stitching, hard and soft plastics, matte-finished metal, a few chrome touches, and the requisite faux-carbon-fiber accents. One lapse is that there’s been no apparent attempt to align the dash-to-door-panel gaps, something we’ve noticed in a few other Fords we’ve tested recently. We have no such gripes about the back seat. The cushions are chairlike, you can slide big feet past the rear of the center console, and the center seating position is useful for actual adults.

The Fusion Sport starts at $34,350 and heads expeditiously for $40,000 with navigation, various driver assists, and sparkly paint options. We expect it to succeed in large part because of the upgrades that Ford invested in this mainstream model for the 2017 facelift. In addition to a few discreet exterior touches and LED lighting upgrades, the optional Sync 3 and Sync Connect infotainment systems are smarter than previous iterations and offer both Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity. Buyers new to this category will be impressed by Ford’s extensive suite of driving assists, which include pre-collision pedestrian detection, automatic emergency braking, adaptive cruise control, a rearview-mirror camera, blind-spot warning, and automatic guidance into both parallel and perpendicular parking slots.

We applaud Ford for proclaiming the Fusion Sport’s elevated performance with quiet touches such as the black mesh grille and four exhaust tips instead of shouting it with RS or ST badges. This is a commendable step in the driving-enjoyment direction that we’re confident will lead to even more go in the next-generation Fusion due for the 2019 model year. Now that the 300-horsepower ceiling has been breached, 400 must certainly be within reach.

View Photos

    SHARE
    TWEET

Highs and Lows
Highs:

Best-in-class power, all-wheel drive to put it to the ground, trick dampers that allow for athletic handling and a family-friendly ride.
Lows:

Seats could better support sporty driving, more steering feel would be welcome.
Model Research

    Ford Fusion Overview
    Build and Price
    View All Features and Specs
    Get a Quote

    MSRP

$23,485

Listed MSRP is for a 2017 Ford Fusion S FWD base trim with no options. Includes destination fee. Does not include sales tax.

Change Trim

    Lease
    Finance

$280/mo*

This number is based on a 36-month, 15000-mile-per-year lease. Lease calculation assumes APR of 1.5% and residual of 48%. Assumes ZIP code of 90210 and entered credit score of 800 or higher. Does not include sales tax. Option to purchase at lease end for an amount may be determined at lease signing. Mileage charge of $0.15/mile over 45,000 miles. Lessee pays for maintenance, repair and excess wear. Lease payments will vary depending on options, vehicle availability, dealer participation, lender participation and terms, and credit score, all of which may vary from the assumptions above. The payment listed is not a guarantee or offer, only an estimate. Promotional interest rate and residual used for monthly lease payment calculation valid 8/26/2016 - 9/6/2016.

Cash Due at Signing

$280 total cash due at signing includes $280 total cash down, $0 security deposit, $3,530 in cash rebates. Tax, title, tags, and dealership fees not included. $645 lease acquisition fee is rolled into monthly payments. Unless waived as part of offer, first month's payment is included in due at signing amount.

*AccuPayment estimates payments under various scenarios for budgeting and informational purposes only. AccuPayment does not state credit or lease terms that are available from a creditor or lessor, and AccuPayment is not an offer or promotion of a credit or lease transaction.

13 Incentives Available
Price with Options

or Get a Quote
Browse Used Inventory
Rank in Family Sedans

    1. Mazda Mazda 6
    Price:
    $22,330 - $31,030
    2. Chevrolet Malibu
    Price:
    $22,500 - $31,795
    3. Honda Accord
    Price:
    $23,040 - $35,515
    7. Ford Fusion
    Price:
    $23,625 - $36,605

Show More (11 total)
Specifications

VEHICLE TYPE:
front-engine, 4-wheel-drive, 5-passenger, 4-door sedan

BASE PRICE:
$34,350

ENGINE TYPE:
twin-turbocharged and intercooled DOHC 24-valve V-6, iron and aluminum block and aluminum heads, direct fuel injection

Displacement:
164 cu in, 2694 cc
Power: 325 hp @ 5500 rpm
Torque: 380 lb-ft @ 3500 rpm

TRANSMISSION:
6-speed automatic with manual shifting mode

DIMENSIONS:

Wheelbase: 112.2 in
Length: 191.8 in
Width: 75.2 in Height: 58.2 in
Passenger volume: 106 cu ft
Cargo volume: 16 cu ft
Curb weight (C/D est): 4000 lb

PERFORMANCE (C/D EST):

Zero to 60 mph: 5.3 sec
Zero to 100 mph: 14.6 sec
Standing ¼-mile: 14.3 sec
Top speed: 125 mph

FUEL ECONOMY:

EPA city/highway: 17/26 mpg

View All Features and Specs
News and Reviews

    2017 Ford Fusion Energi Plug-In Hybrid - First Drive Review
    2017 Ford Fusion Hybrid - First Drive Review
    2017 Ford Fusion Platinum - First Drive Review
    Ford to Debut Traffic Jam Assist, Fully Autonomous Car in Four Years - Car News
    When the Road's Gone to Pot, Ford's Fusion Sport Will Mitigate Pothole Shocks [Video] - Car News

Related Stories

    Quick Take
    2017 Honda Accord
    Quick-Take Review
    2016 Toyota Camry
    Instrumented Test
    2016 Volkswagen Passat V-6
    Instrumented Test
    2016 Honda Accord V-6 Sedan
    First Drive Review
    2017 Ford Fusion Platinum
    Comparison Tests
    2016 Chevrolet Malibu vs. 2016 Honda Accord, 2016 Mazda 6, 2016 Toyota...
    Car News
    When the Road's Gone to Pot, Ford's Fusion Sport Will Mitigate Pothole...
    Official Photos and Info
    2017 Ford Fusion: Updated and Sport-ified

    REVIEWS
        First Drives
        Instrumented Tests
        Comparison Tests
        Long-Term Road Tests
        Specialty Files
        From the Review Vault
    NEWS
        Spy Photos
        Auto Shows
        Blog
    FEATURES
        Columns
        Tech Department
        Gearbox
        10Best
        Shopping Advice
        Video
    BUYER'S GUIDE
        2016 Editors' Choice
        Ford F-150
        Jeep Wrangler
        Ford Escape
        Honda Accord
        Jeep Grand Cherokee
    ABOUT CAR AND DRIVER
        Subscribe
        Mobile
        User Sitemap
        Contact Us
        Subscriptions/
        Customer Service
        Website Feedback
    FOLLOW US
        Backfires
        RSS
        Facebook
        Twitter
        YouTube

    © 2016 Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved., Privacy Policy | Your California Privacy Rights | Terms of Use 


