
IMDb

    Movies, TV
    & Showtimes

    Celebs, Events
    & Photos

    News &
    Community

    Watchlist

    IMDbPro Menu
    |
    Help

    Sign in with Facebook Other Sign in options

FULL CAST AND CREW | TRIVIA | USER REVIEWS | IMDbPro | MORE
SHARE
7.2/10
265,598
Cars (2006)
G | 1h 57min | Animation, Adventure, Comedy | 9 June 2006 (USA)
Cars Poster
A hot-shot race-car named Lightning McQueen gets waylaid in Radiator Springs, where he finds the true meaning of friendship and family.
Directors: John Lasseter, Joe Ranft
Writers: John Lasseter (original story by), Joe Ranft (original story by) | 7 more credits »
Stars: Owen Wilson, Bonnie Hunt, Paul Newman | See full cast & crew »
73
Metascore
From metacritic.com
Reviews
585 user | 256 critic
Popularity
627 ( 35)
ad feedback
IMDb Picks: September
Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children

Tim Burton's fantasy film Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children is on our radar this month. See which other movies and TV shows we're excited about in IMDb Picks.

Visit IMDb Picks
Related News
6 Main Things to Know About Fox's Groundbreaking New Drama, Pitch
1 September 2016 5:45 PM, -02:00 | POPSUGAR
Dan Fogelman’s Romance ‘Life Itself’ Movie in the Works
16 August 2016 7:57 PM, -02:00 | Variety - Film News
Interview: Actor Paul Dooley on Getting to Portray Dad
26 July 2016 12:37 PM, -02:00 | HollywoodChicago.com
See all 1312 related articles »
Create a list »
User Lists

Related lists from IMDb users
list image
peliculas de carrros
a list of 21 titles
created 23 Mar 2012
 
list image
Favorite Disney Animations
a list of 23 titles
created 26 Sep 2013
 
list image
Animation i saw
a list of 44 titles
created 28 Dec 2013
 
list image
Filmler
a list of 46 titles
created 4 months ago
 
list image
Dibujos
a list of 33 titles
created 2 months ago
 
See all related lists »
Connect with IMDb
Share this Rating

Title: Cars (2006)
Cars (2006) on IMDb 7.2/10

Want to share IMDb's rating on your own site? Use the HTML below.
Show HTML View more styles
User Polls

    poll image Disney Sports Films
    poll image Favorite Animated Franchise?
    poll image Favorite Pixar's Lead Character
    poll image What's your favourite sport?
    poll image Saddest Pixar moments?
    poll image What was the best gift you got this year? 

See more polls »
Nominated for 2 Oscars. Another 27 wins & 28 nominations. See more awards »
Photos
Cars (2006) Cars (2006) Cars (2006) Cars (2006) John Lasseter and Larry the Cable Guy in Cars (2006)
77 photos | 1312 news articles »
Learn more
People who liked this also liked... 
Madagascar
The Incredibles
Shrek
Ratatouille
Cars 2
Shrek 2
Ice Age
Toy Story 2
Despicable Me
Monsters University
Despicable Me 2
Monsters, Inc.
◄ Prev 6
Next 6 ►
Madagascar
Add to Watchlist
Next »
Madagascar (2005)
Animation | Adventure | Comedy
   
6.9/10  

Spoiled by their upbringing with no idea what wild life is really like, four animals from New York Central Zoo escape, unwittingly assisted by four absconding penguins, and find themselves in Madagascar, among a bunch of merry lemurs
Directors: Eric Darnell, Tom McGrath
Stars: Chris Rock, Ben Stiller, David Schwimmer
Edit
Cast
Cast overview, first billed only:
Owen Wilson 	Owen Wilson 	... 	
Lightning McQueen (voice)
Paul Newman 	Paul Newman 	... 	
Doc Hudson (voice)
Bonnie Hunt 	Bonnie Hunt 	... 	
Sally Carrera (voice)
Larry the Cable Guy 	Larry the Cable Guy 	... 	
Mater (voice)
Cheech Marin 	Cheech Marin 	... 	
Ramone (voice)
Tony Shalhoub 	Tony Shalhoub 	... 	
Luigi (voice)
Guido Quaroni 	Guido Quaroni 	... 	
Guido (voice)
Jenifer Lewis 	Jenifer Lewis 	... 	
Flo (voice)
Paul Dooley 	Paul Dooley 	... 	
Sarge (voice)
Michael Wallis 	Michael Wallis 	... 	
Sheriff (voice)
George Carlin 	George Carlin 	... 	
Fillmore (voice)
Katherine Helmond 	Katherine Helmond 	... 	
Lizzie (voice)
John Ratzenberger 	John Ratzenberger 	... 	
Mack / Hamm Truck / Abominable Snow Plow / P.T. Flea Car (voice)
Joe Ranft 	Joe Ranft 	... 	
Red / Jerry Recycled Batteries / Peterbilt (voice)
Michael Keaton 	Michael Keaton 	... 	
Chick Hicks (voice)
See full cast »
Edit
Storyline

While traveling to California for the dispute of the final race of the Piston Cup against The King and Chick Hicks, the famous Lightning McQueen accidentally damages the road of the small town Radiator Springs and is sentenced to repair it. Lightning McQueen has to work hard and finds friendship and love in the simple locals, changing its values during his stay in the small town and becoming a true winner. Written by Claudio Carvalho, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Plot Summary | Plot Synopsis Plot Keywords: car | route 66 | truck | tow truck | desert | See All (131) »
Taglines: Life is a journey. Enjoy the trip. See more »
Genres: Animation | Adventure | Comedy | Family | Sport
Certificate: G | See all certifications »
Parents Guide: View content advisory »
Edit
Details
Official Sites: Buena Vista International [Germany] | Disney [Japan] | See more »
Country: USA
Language: English | Italian | Japanese | Yiddish
Release Date: 9 June 2006 (USA) See more »
Also Known As: Route 66 See more »
Filming Locations: Pixar Animation Studios - 1200 Park Avenue, Emeryville, California, USA See more »
Box Office
Budget: $120,000,000 (estimated)
Opening Weekend: $60,119,509 (USA) (9 June 2006)
Gross: $244,052,771 (USA) (13 October 2006)
See more »
Company Credits
Production Co: Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar Animation Studios See more »
Show detailed company contact information on IMDbPro »
Technical Specs
Runtime: 117 min
Sound Mix: SDDS | DTS | Dolby Digital
Color: Color
Aspect Ratio: 2.35 : 1
See full technical specs »
Edit
Did You Know?
Trivia
The character Sally Carrera was inspired by Dawn Welch, owner of the Rock Cafe in Stroud, Oklahoma. Lassiter and his crew met Welch during one of his trips down Route 66 and the Rock Cafe has several pieces of memorabilia celebrating the movie's success. See more »
Goofs
In the final race when Chick Hicks wins the race the camera pans to Lightning and in the background Chick is racing circles but he is light blue (the colours of King) and not his usual green. See more »
Quotes
[first lines]
Lightning McQueen: Okay, here we go. Focus. Speed. I am speed. One winner, forty-two losers. I eat losers for breakfast. Breakfast? Maybe I should have had breakfast? Brekkie could be good for me. No, no, no, focus. Speed. Faster than fast, quicker than quick. I am Lightning.
See more »
Crazy Credits
At the end, the couple that were looking for directions to the Interstate, end up all dusty and still looking for the Interstate. While credits roll, a series of short postscript scenes show the resurrection of the town, like cars are now passing the town, Flo's V8 café is full of customers, customers trying out Ramone's body art, Guido's tire shop is full, a museum of Doc Hudson's racing days opens, Sarge opens a boot camp for off-road vehicles (who have never been off-road), the reopening of the Wheel Well Motel, etc. One of them is the reopening of the Radiator Springs Drive-in Theater, where they show movies of previous Pixar productions but in a car context, like Toy Story (in the marquee it's Toy Car Story), with the actual voices of Tom Hanks and Tim Allen, Monster Trucks, Inc., with the voices of John Goodman and Billy Crystal (Goodman is worried about the Boo mobile), and A Bug's Life, with the voice of Dave Foley. As an additional in-joke, Mack the truck praises the performances of Hamm in Toy Story, the Abominable Snowplow in Monster Trucks, Inc., P.T. Flea in A Bug's Life, which are all voiced, of course, by John Ratzenberger. Mack's final comment is they're voiced by the same actor and "what kind of cut-rate production is this" to reuse the same actor. See more »
Connections
Referenced in Michael & Yossi: Rated or Dated: Sequels (2016) See more »
Soundtracks
Rollin' in the Rearview
Written and Produced by Bruno Coon
Performed by Jabu
See more »
Frequently Asked Questions
Q: Is there a real "Los Angeles International Speedway" ?
Q: How much sex, violence, and profanity are in this movie?
Q: Why did Pixar make the cars' windshields the eyes instead of making the cars' headlights the eyes, as is done on most cartoons?
See more (Spoiler Alert!) »
User Reviews
 
Another "must see" movie from Pixar
31 May 2006 | by robchur (United States) – See all my reviews

I was able to attend a premiere showing of this movie in North Carolina and was amazed again at how much more a movie can be than just "animation." This film focuses on a changed reality, a world where cars are the only life form and so we must suspend our own reality to enjoy this film. In the same flavor as the first Pixar films, we quickly accept a world where everything is a motorized vehicle that lives and acts like we do in our own world. The cars have experiences in life, desires that drive (sorry for that) them, and misunderstandings that are taken advantage of.

My wife and I loved this movie and plan to see it again when it is in public release. I cherished all the nuances of the film and the attention to detail not seen in animations from other companies.

For fans of all ages, this film is for you.
94 of 154 people found this review helpful.  Was this review helpful to you?
Review this title | See all 585 user reviews »
Message Boards
Recent Posts
Major plot hole... 	dremond82
Memories 	mkscw
Why doesn't Sally have a German accent? 	emu5965
10 years 	Navihawk
Doc Hollywood Vs Cars - same story 	demakowski
Cars sad to see Lightning leave? 	fenderman49
Discuss Cars (2006) on the IMDb message boards »
Getting Started | Contributor Zone »
Contribute to This Page
Write review


 

IMDb Everywhere

Find showtimes, watch trailers, browse photos, track your Watchlist and rate your favorite movies and TV shows on your phone or tablet!
IMDb Mobile site
Follow IMDb on

    Home
    Top Rated Movies
    Box Office
    TV
    Coming Soon
    Site Index
    Search
    In Theaters

    Contact Us
    Message Boards
    Register
    News
    Press Room
    Advertising
    Jobs

    IMDbPro
    Box Office Mojo
    Withoutabox
    Conditions of Use
    Privacy Policy
    Interest-Based Ads

Copyright © 1990-2016 IMDb.com, Inc.
An Amazon.com company.
Amazon Affiliates
Amazon Video
Watch Movies &
TV Online
	
Prime Video
Unlimited Streaming
of Movies & TV
	
Amazon Germany
Buy Movies on
DVD & Blu-ray
	
Amazon Italy
Buy Movies on
DVD & Blu-ray
	
Amazon France
Buy Movies on
DVD & Blu-ray
	
Amazon India
Buy Movie and
TV Show DVDs
	
DPReview
Digital
Photography
	
Audible
Download
Audio Books

